The second marker was 500 feet away, and the third and final one was not far beyond.
 BEFORE YOU GO ON, CALL
999-123-9876, AND TALK TO US.
She started to stand and saw the mate about 10 feet in front of her position.
“Really? Are you kidding me?”
 However, will it matter much when your body stops after a 227-foot
fall with a dreadful splat noise? Didn’t think so. Still, these are kind of spiffy, and since I can’t do it
hygienically, I’ll put them in and damn the consequences. Go ahead. Infect me. You’d best hurry.”
She shook her head to enjoy the tugging on the lobes.
“Cool.” She took out her phone and checked them in the quasi-mirror effect of the screen.
“Hey, sexy girlfriend. Bet you’ll be the most glittering corpse among the plain Jane and John
Does. You rock!”
She started to retreat, and a glimpse of red cloth beyond where she stood caught her interest.
“Wait a minute. Earrings here, and now cloth there. Did she ditch them and run? Run where?
Run from what? This is a couple thousand-acre forest, and running amok is not advisable. You might
fall off a cliff.”
She grimaced and looked apologetic. “Sorry about the poor attempt at humor. Yes, I even failed
at that over the years of my life. I’ll shut up now.”
She found a second fragment and began to feel uneasy. “This appears to be from a cotton skirt.
At least I think so, and they match.”
She turned to view the trail, still lit with sunbeams piercing through the leaves and limbs, and
added the white fragment to her collection.
“I wonder if we follow her trail, will we discover a pile of bones that was her? Or will we find
this neat gingerbread house with a witch that looks like my mother?”
“Yes, this is from white blouse material. Did she know she ripped it? Hmm. I imagine she never
thought about it. What chased her was hungry, and she was about to be a sandwich.”
She found another and another and a rusted watch with a cracked and frayed red leather band.
“You need to stop this and complete your mission, young lady.”
Panic gripped her when she turned because she could no longer see the trail.
“Way to go, dumbass curiosity seeker! Your mamma gives you a huge list of faults and failures,
and you fail something simple like falling off a cliff. Whoever lost this is long gone, and she doesn’t
matter. Your death does. Got that? Get back on the course and forget everything else. You came here
to die, not lollygag and play games or detective.”
She discarded the rusty watch and cloth bits with more chastisement. A worse panic gripped her
because she could see no sign of the trail, and the thickness of the trees and underbrush blocked
finding where the sun was in the sky, so knowing any direction was impossible.
“And I never downloaded the GPS compass app to my phone. Nincompoop Nancy strikes again!
Dammit!”
She turned on her phone, got zero bars, and shut it off with a heavy sigh.
“Well, we stand with our back to the watch and walk that way. It’s bound to lead us back to the
trail. Please work with me, Fate. I’m tired of this losing and failing crap!”
Sometime later, she stopped and leaned against a tree to wipe the sweat from her forehead and
catch her breath.
“Way to go. Did you walk about an hour, and in what direction? Where did we make a turn? I
sure don’t remember any! Dammit! Well, if we’re lost, like the bitch who led us astray, we die of
thirst and hunger versus a massive body modification. This isn’t what I wanted, but that’s par for me.
I never receive what I want, only what others want to give me. Dammit! I want the 3 karat diamond
earrings. Thanks. I’ll take the fake ruby pitted gold set. Dammit!”
“Yes, I said dammit! Are you going to make me stop saying it now?” she repeated as she walked
on and hoped it was the correct direction to the cliff.
“And in that dammit, I’m pissed off that I can’t blame anyone for this predicament! Are you
happy now, Self? This is so screwed up to be alone and mess up this bad.”
No sooner than she shut up, she entered a modest clearing about 50 feet across and somewhat a
circle layout.
“What the F? I didn’t pass through any clearings on my way here.”
She leaned against a tree and focused on a small greenish-gray tree with smooth bark directly
across from her.
“Now we have a worthy goal, lost self, we focus on that tree, go to it, and nowhere else. Then
we’ll sit for a spell and think of what to do next. How do I complicate such simple things in life?
Dammit! Starve to death while wandering aimlessly within ten feet of the trail. Nancy’s a winner,
folks. Bet on her. Your fortune rests in her foolishness.”
She was over halfway across and feeling fine when her foot hit something hard in the rather tall
grass and heard as well as felt the trap snap closed on her right ankle. She screamed, stumbled, and
fell face down on the ground.
“No! Please, not this! Oh, damn, that hurts!”
She took a deep breath and yelled as loud as possible. “NO! I don’t want this, Fate, Karma,
anyone, anything! Please don’t do this to me! Come on! Let me die swiftly instead of dragging it out
for weeks, painfully, and alone!”
Birds, what seemed to her like 200 or more birds, made a noisy exit from the ground, bushes,
and trees around the clearing as she screamed again.
She twisted to where she could see the steel bands on each side of her ankle and struggled until
she sat and could touch it. Her heart, mind, and stomach seemed to implode when she gripped both
sides and realized that she could never open them or remove the trap without help.
“NO! HELL NO! Help me, someone, anyone! Please help me! I don’t want to die like this!”
She let go of the steel jaws, lay back, and cried for the first time in five years. She pounded the
grass with her fists as her right leg throbbed like a monstrous toothache and cried and shouted to
exhaustion and bitter bouts of unconsciousness.
*
Harold Castleman moved outside the small but tidy cabin that grew too uncomfortable for him.
He did not wish to open any windows until the heat became intolerable.
“Got to save the AC,” he chuckled and sat in his web chair. He picked up his block of carving
wood, fished his knife from his pocket, and commenced to work on his latest project, an eight-inch
beaver.
“I know you don’t look like it now, but be patient, and soon, you will look real enough. When
you’re painted, beavers from all over the State will want to date you, stud. Stop laughing at me. I’m
serious. I had to burn the raccoon to stop the parade of women after his tight butt.”
He made three passes with his knife and paused to look north as a massive cloud of birds took
flight from the forest in a noisy frenzied pattern.
“What the dickens? What are you all up to? What put a bee in your bonnet or your tail feathers?
You don’t make that wild commotion unless disturbed and frightened you.”
He lay the wood and knife aside and held up his right arm, and hand extended his forefinger. He
took a deep breath, made a screeching noise, and waited. He repeated it three times before the red
tail hawk moved away from the cloud and dropped like a bullet in the direction of the cabin and the
extended landing arm.
“What’s up, Nathan? What’s got your gall bladder in an uproar?”
The hawk screeched, shook his head, and looked north.
“What is it? Another dumb ass walking the trail that got into trouble?”
Nathan squawked, and his head bobbed.
“Why do I still care?” He listened to the whine and felt the shifting of talons as Nathan repositioned on his arm.
“I guess you’re right, but I want to quit. That last one was gross. Bears are not something to be
messed with. She got her suicide wish, but not quite the way she expected. So guide me, buddy, and
we’ll see what we can do.”
Nathan crouched down on his legs in preparation.
Harold lowered his arm, stood, and snapped the arm up to launch the hawk.
Nathan perched on the woodshed crest and waited until his human friend grabbed his canteen
and package of jerky and set off at a trot. Then, he flew in tight circles to be visible and guided
Harold within 300 feet of the clearing.
Harold could hear her crying and intermittently yelling for help. At last, he entered the visual
space to her left and shook his head at her predicament. He stopped beside her, and she stared up at
him.
“Got off the trail, huh? That’s not a wise thing to do.”
Nancy hastily evaluated his rough, unkempt appearance. “Tell me about it.”
He dropped to his knees and reached for the trap when she shouted at him.
“Stop! Don’t touch me!”
He paused and cast a dumbfounded look at her. “What? What do you mean, don’t touch you?”
“Just get me help, okay?”
“No, it’s not okay. From where you parked, it’s about fifteen miles from any professional help.
And with your wandering, you added about four miles more to that. So simply getting help won’t
work. I’ll take care of you.”
“No, I don’t trust you!”
“What the hell? Are you sane? Since you’re here and waking Suicide Trail to kill yourself, I
guess not. And if you want to die, why does it matter if I touch, kiss, or rape you? When I’m done,
I’ll drag you and fling your ravaged body to your coveted destination!”
He paused and enjoyed the perplexed look on her face. “Don’t touch you. Don’t help you. Do us
both a favor and shut up until you can walk out of here, either way! Stupid ass girl! Display your
intelligence with silence!”
She flashed him a mean stare and closed her eyes in surrender. “In that case, go ahead.”
He turned her ankle slowly as she grunted and yipped.
“Listen, mysterious girl, I’m going to pull the sides apart now. Try not to jerk your foot. It’s cut,
but I need to check for any broken bones. That is my biggest concern.”
“Okay, man. I’m ready. Go for it.”
It hurt, and she yelped when the jaws released her and shed some tears as he moved the trap
aside and caught her lower leg like it was crystal.
“This might hurt, but I need to check it now, not later. So suck it up and don’t faint on me.”
“I hear you. Go ahead.”
He squeezed the cut with his fingers and did his best to check the bones beneath. They appeared
intact, and he told her so when he finished.
“You lucked out a bit there, lass. I don’t feel any broken bones, so I’ll treat it as a sprain. Two,
this is one trap that I modified for a smaller game. I filed the teeth down to prevent more than a cut
or broken bone. There’s no need to add extra torture to trap a meat meal on occasion. Sorry, you got
caught in it, though.”
“Me too. Where am I from the trail?”
“About two miles due south. The cliff is about two miles farther from there to the west. What
got you off course?”
“The sunshine lit up these earrings, and I got distracted by torn clothing pieces.”
“Huh, I wondered what had happened to them. They were ripped out of her ears when I found
her.”
“Did she make it?”
He sadly shook his head. “No. She bled some when she cut herself someway. Then she chose to
mess with a bear and lost the fight.”
“Yuck. Spare me the details.”
“I will.” He studied her body and face and looked south. He knew it was about a mile from his
cabin and did not think he could carry her that far.
She felt sorry for the turmoil he displayed. “This isn’t good, is it?”
“It’s not the best situation. Did you happen to leave a note for anyone?”
“Nope, I disappeared without a trace or farewell.”
“Bummer. Well, I’ll make you a deal. I’ll make a litter, immobilize your ankle, and transport
you to my cabin. I’ll treat you to keep it from getting infected and take care of you until you can
walk normally again. Then you’re free to go.”
“Why won’t you drag me to the cliff and let me claw my way over?”
“No, I’m stupid when it comes to the cliff. You want to go, you go on your own. I refuse to help
any bozo who becomes lost on the way to stupid land. Take it or leave it?”
“You’re a tough man. People told me stories about a maniac in the forest here.”
He snorted and stood. “I’m sure they did, and a lot of them came from the same witch. I’d like to
take her broom and shove the handle up her tight ass until it goes through her petty little piss ant
brain.”
“Ouch. I’m glad it’s not me, Tonto.”
He smiled and nodded. “Me too, Pale Face. Relax as much as you can, and we’ll have you out of
here before the sun sets.”
He raised his right arm and whistled.
Nathan took flight and landed and hooted and whistled to him.
“Roundup. Do you understand? Roundup. Okay, buddy?”
Nathan hunkered, and Harold released him in a flurry of flapping wings and screeches. He made
many circles around them, and the clearing returned to land before Harold’s feet and did a wild
wing-flapping dance.
“Good boy,” said Harold and clapped. “I owe you one. I have no treats with me.”
Nathan nodded and took flight, headed in the direction of the cabin.
“What was that about?”
“That roundup means there are no carnivores around that can smell blood 100 miles away.
However, I still want to leave swiftly. The woods are not all visitor-friendly after dark.”
“Do you two understand each other?”
“We do very well at communication. I saved his life by healing a wing when he was a youngster
and taught him to fly. He loves me, and we help each other all we can. Relax now. I’ll be right
back.”
Chapter Two
True to his word, he had her in his cabin before nightfall, laying on his bed with her right leg
propped up on pillows and cushions.
“This is rather a neat place,” she said to make conversation as he mashed leaves and some
sweet-smelling liquid in a mortar. “I see no utilities, though. Doesn’t that bother you?”
“Not in the least. I live well without them. So, will you until you leave.”
“The bathroom?”
“Is outside and to the right.”
“Oh, brother. Looks like I’m in for some fun until I heal.”
“Possibly, but I’ll be the best doctor and nurse you need, trust me. You’ll survive and never
remember this day when you’re 97.”
Her laugh surprised her. “You’re most likely right.”
“Why were you set on dying? Are you too rattled to jaw about it?”
“Because I’m tired of the pain and constantly told that I’m a failure. You can add that I’m the
cause of all failures and problems in the family. After the trap snapped shut, I began to believe it. I
mean, who flunks Suicide 101? It’s simple. Walk and keep walking until the ground disappears, and
goodbye Nancy. Nope. Not me. I screwed that up also.”
He finished his mashing and got some gauze and tape from a first aid kit in a dingy plastic bag.
“This will sting like blazes, but that means it’s working and healing. Grip the sheets like steel
rods and scream and curse if you want. What you don’t need is to go down from an infection. The
cliff is better than that.”
“Thanks. I’ll remember that.”
“You don’t seem all that bad to me. Except for getting lost, and anyone can do that. Hell, I did
that myself in the past. So what specifics annoyed you to that point?”
Nancy frowned, gripped the sheets, and inhaled sharply when the paste touched the cut skin.
“The consistency of the negatives. I consider it a low level of bullying. They don’t hit or tell you
to die, but they pick on your every comment and move. So, after a few years of being told you’re
worthless, you make mistakes, you’re the reason for our bad luck, and such, it sort of works its way
into how you think and look at life and yourself. And suddenly, you’re finding many ways to prove
them right without trying.”
She sighed and watched his fingers working with gauze.
“I guess the final blow came from my mother’s request on Brad, my current boyfriend. She
dislikes him with a passion. He’s polite, kind, loving, and intelligent. He’s got a goal to obtain a
degree in the field of satellite control and design. He’s got three colleges begging for him to say yes
to them. They all want to give him a full ride where he only needs to worry about food and clothing.
And mom doesn’t like him. The nerve of some women!”
He laughed and gently lowered the leg to an elevated position. “I understand what you mean.”
“And if you take the time to argue with her, you’ll find it all boils down to one thing: his family
isn’t wealthy and heavy into political intrigue in society. They’re not in the news with all their
accomplishments, and see what I did. How’s that for a stupid idea?”
“About that stupid, and I’m lucky I’m still single. I don’t need that heartache. So you sacrifice
your life, look grand in the public eye, and they might name a street after you when you're dead. Big
whoop!”
“Exactly. The ankle looks and feels comfortable. And your jerky filled my tummy, but I need to
use the facilities before I sleep. So how do we arrange that? Sorry to bother you.”
He picked her up and carried her to the outhouse door without a word. There he set her down on
her left ankle, and she held onto the door with both her hands.
“Is that sufficient, or do you need more help?”
“Wow! Uh, I think I can manage with a few hops. Thanks, sir.”
“You’re welcome, and call me Harold. Take care of matters, and I’ll give you a ride back.”
*
Morning arrived, and Nancy woke to the smell of bacon and eggs frying from somewhere
outside. Her stomach rumbled in anticipation and hunger.
“Wow, what a great night’s sleep. I haven’t enjoyed that for a long time.”
She checked her surroundings on each side of the bed. A sleeping bag lay on the right and away
from the bed.
She stretched her arms and twisted her back to limber herself.
“What a gentleman. I guess some rumors are just that, rumors, like me. I’m not bad news; it’s
something other butt faces say about me.”
She moved her right foot, and with a few twitches of pain, she shifted up and sat on the edge of
the bed. She let her right foot touch the floor when the door opened.
“Hold it! Don’t put weight on that foot yet. I don’t think it’s fractured, but don’t press your luck.
Even with a sprain, you need to give it some rest before putting stress on it.”
“I wished to sit, not walk. Good morning, Harold. Sorry about confiscating your bed. I slept like
a baby after you were done.”
“I like that. That’s what your body and mind needed.”
“Breakfast smells delicious. Is eating permitted with a bunged ankle after a bungled suicide?”
“Yes, that’s your next prescription. Do you have to visit the restroom?”
“Not now. Move me to the table?”
He obliged her and moved a chair with a cushion for her foot. Next, he placed a cup of coffee
within reach along with fixings and went outside.
She prepared her coffee, took a few sips, and conducted a more intense eye tour of her
environment. The interior made her feel relaxed and comfortable. Then the room temperature
seemed to drop as she stopped on a stand between the sofa and the bed. A small portrait photo, 2” by
3” of a woman, sat in a wood frame that appeared to be carved and ornately decorated. Her heart
skipped a beat, and she gripped the table to keep herself on the chair. She yearned to pick it up for a
closer look but knew she could not reach it without walking and chose not to try.
She held her right hand to face-level, viewed the goosebumps and erect hairs, and shivered.
“Don’t lose it, Nancy. Take a deep breath or two and let it go. There’s a logical explanation and
reason for this. However, what have we gotten ourselves into, girl? I mean, what the F?”
She took a few calming breaths and followed with a sip of coffee.
“I guess we’ll be all right. But, still, you must admit that photo is eerie as all hell. Is that woman,
my mother, the witch he’d like to do in with a broomstick? Sometimes I thought she was a witch.
She’d be the perfect role model for that part. But, no way! How can mom’s photo be here in this
remote area, sitting in the cabin of a rumored maniac? So, keep quiet and cool until we heal and haul
ass out of here. Got that, pansy butt? Yes, I hear you.”
By the time he came in with two plates of food, she was calm and over the fright, panic, or
whatever disturbed her. She ate with gusto and questioned him about the cabin, the lack of utilities,
and who owned the property.
“So far as I’m concerned, it’s mine. I know most of the woods are State Forest, but I don’t
trouble anybody, and I do a lot to help the Park Rangers with stray animals and such. So, they don’t
worry me, and I respect them and their duties. I trap just to keep myself in meat and not to sell. They
like that. Sometimes, they will leave a package of sulfa drugs, fixings, and canned foods on my front
porch. We share a pretty healthy symbiotic relationship, despite the rumors.”
“Awesome for you, dude. I’m proud of you, and you can talk with animals. Is it like Tarzan or
what?”
That comment got a grin from him. “It’s like or what. A few are friendly with me, but the rest
avoid me as I avoid them. However, if they’re sick, they’ll come up on the porch and lay by the
door, so I can take care of them. Then they’re gone as soon as possible. I don’t mind. I love helping
them.”
She wanted to be quiet, but the oddity nettled her curiosity. She glanced over her shoulder at her
mother’s picture. “So, who’s the woman in the photo? Is she someone special to you?”
He followed her gaze, and his voice grew melancholy. “She’s my Marsha, a lovely woman but
the biggest mistake I ever made. She’s also the only woman I loved more than life itself. However,
the damned woman is like a sponge. She knows how to suck up all she can from anyone around her
and keep it for herself. Do you think she would return even one ounce of love to me? No way. Hell
would freeze over before she opened her heart, at least for me. To her, I’m like the suicides at the
bottom of the cliff. I’m worthless to her and her too-perfect world. Bitch! Ruthless love thief!”
She sighed and winced. “Sorry. I didn’t mean to upset you.”
“You ask because you don’t know. It was like me asking you last night. Communication is
important in life, like with Nathan and me. Marsha and I might still be together, but her
communication concept was to do what she said and do it now. So my response was not important to
her.”
“Cool, Harold. Any idea about the length of healing for my foot?”
“If your body is a good healer, maybe two weeks or less. Soon I’ll make a walker for you out of
bark and wood slats. Another week and you can go. I want to be sure the cut is healed thoroughly
before the walker. I want it to the point that you can barely see it, if at all.”
“That sounds great to me. What if I want to stay?”
“Don’t go there. You’ll heal. You’ll go. And life will press on for a few more cycles.”
She finished her plate and moved it aside. “So, what’s on for today?”
“Do you like reading?”
“I can take it or leave it. Are there any magazines around?”
“No, but I own a few books, some classics if you want to exercise your mind.”
“Hmm, I’ll give that a shot since I’m chair-bound. May I read outside in the fresh air?”
“Sure thing. I’ll hook you up with one of my favorites, Silas Marner. Did you ever hear of it?”
“No, but I guess I will soon. What are you going to do?”
“Check my traps and hope NOT to find another stray suicide wannabee. Instead, I’ll spend time
making paints for my carvings and concentrate on finishing my latest one, my beaver. And I’ll try to
get in a nap and some reading myself. The rangers occasionally bring me books from the library, and
I enjoy that. It allows me to live and experience life somewhere else and not leave my armchair.”
“Cool. Hook me up with a book, plant me on the front porch, and press on with life. When I can
walk around alone, I’ll wash dishes and help you out where I can.”
He regarded her and shook his head. “You don’t have to, but I won’t argue much about it when
you do.”
*
Marsha Martin was between ‘blow a fuse’ anxious and ‘rubbed raw’ fury when she was forced
to admit that her daughter was missing. It hurt worse to know it might become public knowledge.
Her next step was to vigorously accost Brad Clark, Nancy’s taboo boyfriend, sure he had aided
her escape or at least knew her whereabouts. Of course, he denied it, but that failed to register with
Marsha.
She harassed him and his family for three days before accepting they were clueless. Her verbal
harassment led them to get a restraining order against her. Only then did she turn to the police. She
braced herself, and when it hit the media that the Governor’s daughter was missing, the Delaware
State’s citizens and law enforcement teams launched into orbit to locate her.
The State Chief of Police, Daniel Coombs, and reporters from the local newspapers converged
on the Governor’s Mansion. During a press conference, Marsha made a tearful display about her
missing daughter. However, behind the scenes, she worried more about privacy and keeping secrets.
As a result, she refused to cooperate fully with authorities. It took four more days and a blistering
lecture from Stanley before she stopped her resistance and let the detectives enter Nancy’s bedroom
and even remove her computer as part of their investigation.
The mansion settled to a strained quiet, and Stanley watched Marsha sternly until he cornered
her and demanded conversation.
“What is your problem, honey?”
“I dislike having my personal life probed by anyone! You know that!”
“Oh, dear, what are you afraid of? Do you worry that someone might throw a rock through your
rose-colored glass house and see the real you? How many years will you try to hide the cellulite that
won’t disappear?”
She flung a cushion at him. “What’s that mean? Huh? Like you can afford that yourself? Like
you devote your family life to being a trademark father? Like you only care about her when it
benefits your political career or public standing! Ass hole!”
He cocked his head and shrugged. “I can’t argue with you on that, honey. I learned that one from
the best teacher in the world. It’s a lesson from Marsha Martin’s Two-Faced Life College.”
“What are you talking about?”
“You taught me that lesson, even before you married and rode me until it became a part of my
life and personality! If you don’t like it now, you should never have taught me that it was necessary
for us. Sometimes I think it only benefits you, but we both stand a chance to be hammered at times
like this. Nancy’s birth was a horrible mistake. I should have listened to my mother and ex-wife and
told you to pack sand!”
“Oh, my! You wait 17 years to tell me that? If you’d told me then, you’d still be a Senator
wannabee, and I wouldn’t be distressed as I am now! She’s my daughter! I carried her for 9 months!
So sorry that only men are burdened when a child is created.”
“You didn’t have to do that.”
“It’s too bad the man can’t carry half of it until delivery! And only now do you find the balls to
tell me I was wrong to deliver her. She might have been a mistake for you, but she wasn’t for me! I
can admit my faults and correct them! What about you?”
His face turned red, and his voice raised. “If you live to be a hundred, you’ll still have faults to
correct. You’re as big a loser as Nancy is. If you weren’t born, none of this would happen now!”
“Then why have you stayed around so long? Huh? Many other women in Delaware want to
crawl into bed with you the 1st or the 10th time! Why not replace me with one of them?”
He sat down on the edge of the sofa and swiped at his face before he looked at her face and held
her attention.
“Because I loved you, and I still do, at some level. You fit into my life so easily that I didn’t
realize that you were a black hole for love. You take, but you can’t open your heart and let any of it
go to someone else. It might cause a tidbit of personal information to escape and become common
knowledge. You’re easy to love, Marsha, and even in this crisis, you’re the best woman I ever
encountered to be a part of my life. Therefore, you’re still here, and no one else shares my life. Still,
Nancy was a mistake that an abortion would have prevented.”
“Drop dead, prick!”
*
Two days later, the police called them in for a meeting and twisted their pants in a tighter knot
for lack of knowledge about Nancy and what she did with her time.
“So, you didn’t know she was registered and an active member of the Suicide and Gone
website?”
“No, we trusted her to be responsible, and that was pretty much that. As a result, we seldom
checked on her Internet activities,” said Stanley.
Marsha paled and felt her heart skip a few beats. “Is there call or reason to believe that
happened?”
She closed her eyes and waited for the worst.
“Quite possible. Nancy’s had many conversations with her partner there, Double Noose, about
different methods, and though some are better than others, they’re all geared for success.”
Marsha’s mouth hung open. “What? Are you serious or joking? Is there a list from easy to
difficult?”
“It’s actually from the swiftest to the longest. Like a shotgun blast through your head is swift
and sure in about 30 seconds or less. If you want to hang yourself, you’re talking about 14 minutes
or more before your strangulation agony ends.”
Marsha groaned and shut her eyes. “Sorry, I didn’t need to hear that. Is there any indication on
how Nancy would if she did?”
“They discussed several, but the one most frequent was walking the Suicide Trail. That’s in
Pennsylvania in Evansburg State Forest. From what I heard, it’s a marked trail you walk after dark,
and somewhere along the line, you drop off a 227-foot cliff.”
“Oh, damn, and ouch! Do people really listen to their suicide partners and do it?”
“I guess some do, but it’s never been proven right or wrong. I know the Pennsylvania State
Psychiatric Department put a huge Suicide Prevention sign up at the supposed entrance to the trail.
However, there are no remains found in the vicinity of the cliff. Therefore, we can’t guarantee it’s
chosen or used. My theory is wild animals; the carnivores hang out and use the cliff bottom as a
dining hall.”
“Do any of the death walkers return alive, as is chickening out?”
“Some do, but the ones who don’t, well, we don’t know. Then, of course, they are never heard
from again.”
“I think I’m going to be sick. Is there anything else we can do to help you?”
“No, ma’am. Since the trail is in Pennsylvania, we must go through them to continue the
investigation. The FBI will take over from there if foul play is hinted.”
“I understand very well. It’s going to get worse before it gets better. What’s your personal
prognosis for finding her?”
“Alive or dead, around zero percent. The last time she logged off her computer was 12 days ago,
and that’s a long time to be incommunicado. She could be in a brothel in Turkey, or she could be a
forced prostitute on drugs in Los Angles, or she could be dead and buried somewhere and not
discovered for 20 years, if ever. So sorry we can’t be more positive other than we will investigate as
far and as long as we can.”
*
Ten days after becoming a patient in Harold’s Cabin Hospital, Nancy felt much better about life
and her world-class nurse. She listened to him tell her about his first encounter with Marsha and
watched the life dance in his eyes and his voice warm with his heart.
“It was in the third grade and on the last recess of the day. Two boys had her trapped in a remote
part of the playground that was off-limits to the students. I could see she struggled with them, but
one held her, and the other tried his best to undress her. So, I chose to get involved in her life and
save her. Before the school day ended, I was kicked out of school for three days for fighting. I got a
whipping from the assistant school principal and another from my dad when I got home. I took them
all and never worried about them. She was very appreciative of my standing up for her, and it made
me dizzy. That was the first meeting with her and the kindest she ever treated me after that. It was
wonderful for a short time, and she was back to ignoring me as usual.”
“Amazing that you remember that far back. You’re awesome.”
“And you’re healed enough to go with a walker that looks like Frankenstein designed, but it will
work for a few days. Your faithfulness in doing the exercises I taught you paid off, so today, you’ll
play Indian to start and spend the rest of the day without the pesto medicine, and we’ll see how well
you do on the walking boot.”
“Play Indian? What’s up with that?”
He carried her outside to the porch, and on one end was an oval aluminum tub about 5 feet long
and 3 feet wide.
“What’s up is a bath for the princess. Strip off your clothes, give them to me, bathe while I wash
them, and hang them to dry. Then, when you’re done, you spend your reading time wrapped in the
sheet on that chair, like an Indian or old grandmother might, until your clothes are dry.”
She laughed, handed her clothes to him one piece at a time, and stepped into the water with his
support. Then, she sat and took the bar of soap from him.
“Enjoy yourself. I’ll be back soon, princess.”
When he returned, she was finished and wondering about rinsing since the water was dense with
soap film, shampoo trails, and dead skin cells.
He did not answer but opened a drain fixture in the foot end of the tub, and the water drained
while she splashed her legs and giggled. Without warning, fresh, clean water poured on her head,
and she laughed as she removed the soap film. She had not seen him bring the water, but he used
three buckets, and when she finished, she laughed. And then, for no apparent reason, she cried.
“What’s wrong? Is your ankle hurting?”
“It’s nothing you did. That’s the first time I can remember laughing so freely. It was grand to do
so. I don’t remember many happy moments in my life with mom and dad. Thanks for treating me
like a human being. You’re not wrong in what you’re doing. But, unfortunately, the world at large
is.”
*
The walking boot, with his carved signature, worked well. It unbalanced her at first, but it
satisfied Harold’s expectations, and she enjoyed hobbled walking to take care of her needs the rest of
the day.
He inspected the foot at bedtime, and his ‘doctoring’ results pleased him.
“Perfect! Got you, sucker. You’re not going to have much of a scar. The only thing to show will
be this faint white line where the most pressure pinched your skin. Beautiful!”
Chapter Three
Two weeks and five days after her incident with the trap, Nancy walked toward freedom and life in
the reverse direction of the trail. However, that trip filled her with much more angst and stress. A
comforting death awaited her on her way inside. Going out, she had no guarantee or promise of
anything like the peace that settled on her from knowing Harold Castleman. The most important
positive note was that she wanted to live and experience many decades more of life and love to
honor the man.
She reached her car, now covered with a thick layer of dust and pollen, and with a heavy sigh,
opened her iPhone and felt joy when four network bars were displayed on the screen. Then, with a
deep breath and some hesitation, she pressed 911 and waited for the connection.
“Yes, this is Nancy Martin calling, and I have a problem. I need someone to unlock my car.
“I am? Well, I figured that might happen, but I’m here in Pennsylvania, lost and needing help.
What? Can’t you just send help without all the questions?”
“Okay, I came to kill myself, but I changed my mind. So now I’m back at the car, but my keys
are in the trunk. No, all the doors are locked. Why? That is the rule to show determination. You
place the keys in the trunk, manually lock the doors, and walk away. I need someone to open my car.
Thanks. My number is good; it’s the only number, but I have no clue how long the battery will last.
It’s been about three weeks without a charge.
“No, my car’s not visible from the road. Oh, Nantucket Road. I could go to the road and make
myself visible, but my ankle is still too stiff for a lot of walking. It will be around 27 phone poles
after the turn from Chaucer Lane. Look for a green bamboo stake on the right side of the road. Turn
there, and three more will bring you right to me.
“Once more, I don’t need an ambulance, just someone to get the driver’s door open. Again, I’m
not seriously hurt, just a sprained ankle. Just get my car open, and I got it from there.”
She wiped an area on the trunk and took the walking boot from the backpack he insisted she take
with her. Besides the boot, it had two sacks of jerky and three bottles of spring water he filled for
her. She put the boot on to give her some relief and hopped onto the trunk lid. She waited for rescue
while looking at the forest with mixed emotions.
“I’m going to miss you, Harold. I wish life had adjusted so you could be my dad.”
She felt goosebumps like she had so many times in the cabin with him. Then, she gasped and
recalled one of his revealing sessions. He told about being in a private home with a midwife when
Marsha had a baby. That was the last time he saw her and his daughter because instead of staying
with him, she went with Stanley and married him right after he was elected State Senator.
“Son-of-a-gun! Wow! Hey, he might be my father. That was 17 years ago, and if she played
both men simultaneously, he might be my father. But, of course, mom would take me and bolt with
the Senator and not honest Harold. Damn! We must check that out.”
She started running several plans to find proof of that marvelous thought when the Park Rangers
first arrived on the scene to help her.
George used a slim tool to unlock her front door.
“Did you come here to commit suicide? Why not kill yourself somewhere else?”
“This is a popular spot for suicides. I discussed several options with my suicide partner and
counselor, and we chose this trail. You walk after darkness settles in, and you can’t see the cliff, and
oops! Goodbye.”
“I reckon that will work, but never mind; I’m glad you failed. What saved you?”
“I got curious about a shiny red earring and got lost from the trail. I wandered around, got caught
in a steel trap, and Harold Castleman rescued and healed me.”
“Really?” asked George.
“Yes, he’s a nice mand, and while I healed, he did a lot of talking and counseling to my restless
and wasted life and triggered several reasons for me to live instead of dying. Love the man. Too bad
he wants to live in the woods. The world could use his love of humanity out here. It would be a
better place if he did.”
George frowned and glanced from her to John, his partner. “What? Are you telling me you met
and interacted with Harold Castleman?”
“Yes, I did. If not for him, I might be dead now or close to it from being caught in the modified
animal trap.”
She made her factual statement but soon realized they thought she was lying.
“Hey, I’m not making this up for a drama award. I can show you the clearing and where the trap
was located. Do you want to see it? It has my blood on it.”
George’s radio crackled and beeped. He answered and ignored her a moment.
“Yeah, we’re here. No, it doesn’t appear that she’s hurt physically, but I think she’s disoriented.
So, no, we don’t need an ambulance. After you get here, you can say yes or no, and we’ll take her to
Chester Crozier for evaluation or not. Ten-four.”
Anger flashed inside her mind. “Hey, you’re not nice! I know what happened to me. I can show
you the clearing and his cabin! I’m not some loon wandering lost in the forest. I was lost until he
found me and saved my life!”
John intervened with his soothing voice and manner. “Okay, miss, please calm down, and when
the State boys show up, I’ll go with you, and you can show me that.”
“Well, I can agree with your offer. On the other hand, it’s not nice for people from the outside to
show up and determine I’m crazy for speaking the truth within two minutes or less.”
She stuck out her tongue at George.
“Whatever you say,” he said.
“What’s wrong with you? I was in there alone, and you can’t know what I’ve been through the
last two weeks!”
John intervened again. “You’re right, Nancy. Just sit down and take some deep breaths, and
we’ll continue when the State boys arrive.”
He turned to George with a scolding look and spoke with a low voice. “Let it go, man! Stop
intimidating her. She’s not lying about her experiences, so let it ride.”
“I don’t like it much, but I’ll laugh at you when she exposes herself as crazy. She’s a bologna
machine if you ask me.”
*
The police arrived, and right behind them were two FBI agents sent to investigate the case of
Suicide Trail and the missing Nancy Martin due to her father’s political status.
Jerome Knight, the Pennsylvania Commandant, approached Nancy, and the rangers, Sarah Johns
and Aponi, trailed close behind to observe all transactions.
“How are you now, Nancy? I’m happy to see you on this side of the deadly forest and cliff. How
do you feel?”
“Irritated by people who were somewhere else but clearly know that everything I say is a lie.
Are you here to add to the list of nitwits, or are you here to make sense and listen to me?”
Aponi stood within audible range and stared at the trees with unblinking eyes.
Sarah moved behind her and rested hands on her shoulders.
“Hey, radar eyes, what do you see?”
“I see and feel a huge uproar of hurting souls pouring out of the forest in a whirlwind of anxiety.
They’re all focused on the young woman on the trunk of her car. She’s innocent and doesn’t feel
them or understand them. They want, need, and demand freedom and reconciliation.”
“In other words, we got our work cut out for us, huh?”
“Yep, we’re going to get our hands dirty on this one. Some of them are nasty and demand blood
already from anyone. On the other hand, years of pent-up anger is reaching critical mass.”
“Okay. Are you ready to assert your authority and humble some brothers-in-the-law?”
“I’m set. Take notes on what she says. She’s the hub here, whether the people around her
understand it. I hope I can add a few Aponi converts to my repertoire on this case.”
Sarah laughed and gave her a slight shove. “Oh, gag me! Go for it. Add to your groupies. You
deserve it.”
Aponi moved past the police and the rangers and stood beside Nancy, resting an elbow on the
car.
“Hey, girlfriend, I’m glad you failed on that simple suicide maneuver. It makes my job easier
when you’re living. It’s a bitch to work with dead people.”
“Huh? Who are you? Are you with the police or the rude ranger force?”
She handed her ID and credentials to Nancy.
“I’m Aponi from the FBI, and people say I’m brash, and some say I’m bold, and some think I’m
a pain in the ass. I could care less what they say so long as they stay out of my way and pay me
homage when I prove them wrong. Who are you?”
“Me? I’m Nancy Martin.”
“From where?”
“Delaware. My dad’s the Governor, and my mom’s his wife.”
“I noticed a small cringe there. Doesn’t that make you happy?”
“No, far from it.”
“Well, there used to be TV shows where they took average housewives and made them Queen
for A Day. I’m sure I could find some teens who would love to be a governor’s daughter for a day.”
“I’m sure you could, but it’s most likely only me not loving the situation. There’s nothing I can
do right to please them except breathe, and sometimes they frown on that simple reflex action.”
“Hmm. So that’s why you chose to suicide?”
“That was my driving reason.”
“Well, I commend you on whatever tiny thing led you astray. I commend you for not letting all
the evil and unrest in that forest nightmare break you. Whether you know it or not, or your parents
know it, you possess a rock-solid inner strength. That hidden strength saved from the moment you
entered until you returned unharmed.”
“Most of the credit has to go to Harold Castleman. He saved me and gave me hope for a better
life.”
She patted Nancy on the back. “I respect you, girlfriend. You’re quite okay in my book.”
“Uh, thanks, I guess. I don’t feel that way most of the time.”
“Well, I’m going to put all my faith and trust in you. Together we’ll turn this whole park and
county upside down and shake out what ails it. Then we’ll hang proofs on the clothesline for the
skeptical world to see. I’ll do that for you. Will you do the same for me?”
Nancy’s right arm moved on its own, and it pleased her when Aponi shook it.
“Yes, I will, but why? Sometimes validation helps make me stronger.”
“Because I can feel what you and they can’t. There’s a great deal of turmoil, anger and some
violence raging in there. And the anxious spirits are focusing on you because you experienced what
you did with the freedom and joy of a child and walked away unscathed. They seek hope and
salvation through you, but I don’t want them to break the beautiful woman you are. And I speak of
what Harold Castleman saw in you as he boldly moved to help you instead of watching while you
died. And not helping you was one of his choices. However, he did, and now it’s my turn.”
A smile broke out on her face. “It sounds great to me, so where do we start?”
“First, I want to inform you that you’re under arrest by me and in Federal custody. The reason is
you crossed state lines to do yourself bodily harm. I'll forego the handcuffs since your ankle hinders
your flight, but you’re under arrest until I release you. When we depart the area, you will be
handcuffed and in the back seat of our car and spend a few days in detention in Harrisburg. Do you
have any questions?”
“None, madam. I promised to put my faith in you, and I will. I understand.”
Aponi turned to view the Rangers and the Police present. “Gentlemen, please give me your
attention. Nancy’s under arrest and under my authority. Don’t bother or question her unless my
partner or I are present. Does anyone need clarification?”
Heads shook and throats cleared, and she turned back to Nancy. “We start this plan with you
calling your mother and letting her know you’re alive and well.”
“I don’t want to do that. Let her worry as if she will. She’s a part of the problem, and my
phone’s charging. It ran down fast when I called 911.”
“I’m serious, girlfriend. It doesn’t matter that she’s part of the problem because you’re also a
part of this, and you hold insider information. But, like you’re alive and out of immediate danger,
she’s clueless about that. She’s probably running many gruesome scenes of bears, serial murderers,
rapists, and such through her mother's mind and anxious enough to puke from a small pat on her
arm.”
She handed Nancy her phone. “Here, use mine. It will display FBI Agent Aponi, and she’ll
poop, and people around her will say ‘Yuck!’ and move upwind, but she’ll be happy to hear your
voice. Trust me.”
Nancy took it with a smile. “You make incredible sense. I like that.”
*
When her phone rang, Marsha and Stanley were in a ballroom in Dover Downs Hotel. It was an
annual political luncheon with many of Delaware’s wealthy supporters to raise awareness and money
for the Delaware Special Olympics, a children’s health benefit. She ignored Stanley’s frown and felt
faint at the FBI text on her display. Finally, however, she chose to answer.
“Hello, mom. I love you, and I’m okay. I didn’t die. I got lost, but I’m alive.”
She jumped from her chair and ignored the quieting room as all eyes turned toward her, critical
or not.
“Yahoo! Oh, Nancy! Oh, my gosh, honey! This is great news! I began to think I never would
hear from you again. So many people told me it was too long, and you were gone for good, never to
be seen again, alive or dead.”
“Well, I’m sorry about that, but I was in a lot of pain and had to run. I’m done now.
Circumstances beyond my grasp changed my mind.”
“Oh, child, I’m so fucking happy to hear your voice. Sorry, I’m crying, but there’s been too
much stress on me. Where are you? When are you coming home? Do you need help? Is there
anything I can do? Please tell me, baby. I’m dying to see and touch you!”
“I’m still in Pennsylvania at the Suicide Trail in Evansburg State Forest. I just made it out and
called for help. I’m out of immediate danger but under arrest by the FBI, and they’re going to help
me. Still, there are a million questions I have to answer. It’s wonderful to hear you also, mom. I love
you too, and I’ll stay in touch now.”
“That’s fantastic, baby. I don’t want to experience any more hellish weeks as I did. We’re going
to make some changes when you get home. Our life will not be as before.”
“I agree, mom. We need to change our stale life and clear out some secrets and overstuffed
closets before the next disaster destroys us.”
“I agree, sweetheart. Thanks for this heartwarming call. Can I call you back at eight o’clock
tonight? Would that be acceptable? I think my heart will be calm by then, baby. Yes. I love you too.
Goodbye for the moment, sweetheart."
She kissed the phone, shut it off, and glanced around the room before taking her chair beside
Stanley.
“Sorry, but that was my daughter who’s been missing and assumed dead. She’s alive and out of
danger! Whew, what a relief that was to hear her.”
She turned to Stanley. “I have to visit the restroom a moment and compose myself. So go ahead
and start without me.”
*
Sabob
Aponi comforted the upset girl until she settled enough to continue. Then she started with the
one who seemed most antagonistic toward Nancy.
“George, why are you being overly negative? Did you ever attempt suicide?”
“No, and I never will.”
“I’m glad for you, Mr. Purity. So where are the lies she’s told you that make you want to beat
her and drag her five miles behind your truck?”
His finger snapped toward Nancy. “She said Harold Castleman helped her from a trap and
healed her ankle. Bull shit! Harold Castleman died about ten years ago! That alone makes everything
else a double-thick bologna sandwich! Dead men don’t help anyone!”
Aponi faced the forest, sensed an enormous increase of rage, and jumped aside swiftly.
George yelped as he jerked two feet backward and struggled unsuccessfully to stay on his feet.
He hit Nancy’s car hard with his right ribcage, which rocked the whole vehicle. He screamed from
the impact, twisted around, and crumpled to the ground like a rag doll.
He moaned and groaned as John helped him stand unsteady against the car. He doubled over as
if hit in the stomach, his head stretched upward to its limit, and he made gagging noises until he fell
forward and hit the ground again, face down.
“What the hell was that?” asked George as John helped right him the second time.
“Offhand, I would say that Harold is not dead yet. His body might be buried somewhere, but his
spirit has loose ends that keep him tied to this world. His problem is people like you stand in his way
of getting 100% free. And since you experienced his reaction, I will add this; it’s not a smart idea to
piss off dead people for any reason. There’s zero defense against them.”
George gave her an indescribable stare, rubbed his ribs, and stretched his arms and back.
“I’ll remember that tidbit. I’m sorry, Harold. You’re in pretty good shape for a dead man. Come
on back when you’re not so angry.”
Aponi moved back beside Nancy, who looked proud and pleased.
“That was awesome, and it felt so like Harold. So what do we do next? I’m more than interested
now.”
“Well, the next thing I need to do is give some assignments, but first some information from
you. You say you were at the cabin, and I trust you were. What about the people who were
successful at committing suicide? Did he tell you about them?”
“He said he always knew the trail was being used. He told me he stopped them when he could
and convinced them to leave. If he couldn’t, he left them alone. In his cabin, he had 27 plastic bags
with their IDs and personal effects. He kept them, waiting and hoping someone would come and ask
about them or show some concern. However, that never happened. It seemed to him that no one
cared enough to even try a search for them.”
“We went through the cabin, madam, Aponi, and there was nothing like that there,” said George.
“He had them in his cellar. Did you check there?” said Nancy.
“There was no cellar in his house.”
Nancy countered insistently. “Aponi, he HAD a cellar for storing foods that needed some
refrigeration. They’re there.”
“And no bodies are found at the base of the cliff.”
“Because he buried them in the cave north of the cliff, you obnoxious slug!”
“That’s another false statement. There is no cave north or south of the cliff. There’s nothing but
dirt and rocks.”
“Man, you are frustrating for someone who pretends to be so intelligent and full of knowledge!
How do you live with yourself? You make people want to puke, but you never do yourself. Damn,
man!”
John felt dubious, and he added his comments. “He’s right on that cave part. There are no caves
in this area. The closest one is about 35 miles northwest of here.”
Aponi sighed and took a calming breath.
“John, you seem calmer about this situation. Are there any ATVs or similar vehicles available at
Ranger Office?”
“Yes, we have a few. That’s our primary transportation in the forest.”
“Will you arrange one for us? I want to see the cabin’s exterior, and I want to see the base of the
cliff if you will accompany me. Please do that while I consider my next move?”
John went to the Ranger truck and called for an employee to bring an ATV to the site.
Aponi continued in private with Nancy. “Do you know if there’s any proof inside the cabin that
only you could verify? I mean something that no one else would even consider?”
She snapped her fingers. “Yes. About a week ago, he arranged a bath on the front porch when he
said I was healed enough. He washed my clothes while I bathed. Anyway, I didn’t put on my panties
when I dressed that evening. I folded them and stuck them between the mattress and the box springs.
I don’t have them on now. I left them there. They’re sky blue with thin white horizontal stripes
running down the front side from the waist to the panel.”
“Did he have sex with you?”
Nancy’s face snapped up an indignant storm front. “I could slap you for that insinuation! I
considered that happening, and that day I asked for it. He declined. He said he would never touch me
so I could deliver a clear message to my mother. I always felt safe with him, dressed, half-naked, or
all the way and bathing.”
Aponi nodded with a smile. “What message?”
“He never told me.”
Aponi faced the forest and waved a hand. “Panties, Nancy’s panties, remain where you are and
don’t move even an inch. Got that?”
John came back to them with news of an ATV on the way.
“Thanks. When it arrives, will you drive and take Nancy and me with you to check out the rest
of her story?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“George, I want you to do the most humbling work on this case because you keep speaking out
of turn and being a general pest. Who is the best general contractor who would come here and
dismantle the rest of Harold’s destroyed cabin?”
“Bishop’s Construct and Destruct Company is the easiest and the best. They do a wide variety of
jobs. Anyway, they’re on contract with the State Government to clear major traffic accidents,
tornado damage, and the demolition of unsafe buildings.”
“Call them and tell them that the FBI needs them here, and we’ll pay them. Tell them I want
them here like last year, but I’ll settle for ASAP.”
“Yes, ma’am,” George said.
“Sarah, I’m going to go with John and Nancy to see the cabin, the cliff, and then the cave where
the suicides are buried. Watch George, make sure he doesn’t overstep his boundaries, and contact
Crystal to arrange a handpicked forensic team on standby to ID and remove any remains we find. Let
them know it will be awful and in a harsh environment.”
“Rock on, partner. I’ll observe all they do, and I’ll separate any obviously personal type items
and let Nancy have the chance to choose what happens with it.”
George raised his hand and frantically waved at Aponi.
She shook her head and sighed in frustration.
“Do you have a question or comment, George? What is it?”
“The cabin is crushed, but I’ll work with you on that. However, why would you call in a
specialized team when you’ve not even seen a possible burial site? That makes no sense to me.”
“I’m doing it because she’s seen it, and I’ll believe her positives over your negatives. Why
should she lie? Lying will not decrease her punishment. Is that all?”
Nancy enjoyed the win and watched him move away to call the contractor.
“You don’t like George, do you?”
“Just the opposite, dear. I like him, but I dislike his disbelief in what you say. I like his
frustration because he wants to slap me, but he knows better than to even try. Some people fight
harder at grasping the spirit world around them than others. He wants to believe you, but all his
worldly knowledge says impossible and creates a lot of conflict inside him. So, he retaliates by
lashing out at people and decrying them as liars. He’ll change before the day’s over.”
“I’m not sure I understand what you’re saying myself,” said Nancy.
“But you’re trying and demanding that people listen to your truth.”
Nancy shivered and closed her eyes. She opened her eyes as chilling waves danced through her
body. “And so is George but in a different way.” She wavered, and Aponi held her solid to keep her
from falling.
She gulped and had difficulty speaking the next words.
“We’ll find a demolished cabin, won’t we? We’re both telling the truth. He has seen it, and it’s
wrecked. I know I left there and said goodbye to Harold this morning. Son-of-a-bitch! What
happened in that forest, Aponi? That’s scary now!”
“Steady, girlfriend. I call it salvation. All the restless spirits in that forest call it the key to
freedom. So relax. You’re okay, and you’ll be validated before nightfall. And George will be
humbled; your mother will get the message, and Little Bo Peep will find her sheep. So, hold yourself
together and keep pouring your trust into me like I am you.”
Nancy made a strange sound and nodded. “Got your back, girlfriend. Thanks for being here. If
not, all would be lost to me. I’d die on the trunk of my car instead of the cliff.”
Sarah moved in to hug Aponi. “Are you okay? Looks like you’re stressing out a little.”
“You’re right. I feel it, but I’m still under control. I insist on a win here for Nancy and for me.”
*
The ATV arrived, and John drove away with Aponi and Nancy for the guide. Seeing the crushed
cabin hurt Nancy. Three large trees had been uprooted by the furious flash storm, and all three fell
across the building. The work of the Rangers could be seen where the trees were cut to allow them to
remove Harold’s body, and that was about all.
Nancy stood shocked at the scene, made the Sign of The Cross, and closed her eyes in prayer.
Then she was on her knees crying and shaking her head no.
John coughed and got Aponi’s attention. “What’s wrong with her?”
“She’s in shock, but that will change as proofs start to unfold on her side of the scoreboard.
What happened to everything else in the house?”
“There was little for us to take. The only things we removed beside him were a photo of a
woman in a carved frame and a carved beaver figure. He held the photo, and the beaver was close to
the bed.”
“I’d like to have them if I could. The photo was of my mother when she was younger. The
beaver was in progress, and I asked for carving lessons. So he did, and I helped carve some of his
tail.”
“We’ll give them to you before you leave us,” said John.
They rode in silence until Nancy stopped them at the base of the cliff. Aponi shaded her eyes
with her hand and looked up to the top. She lowered her gaze to the abundant large, jagged rocks at
the bottom. Several had dark stains that Aponi figured were dried blood.
“My lands, that’s evil and an unforgiving drop. The impact must hurt. Whew! Let’s go. Whoever
directs people here needs to experience a debilitating ass whipping.”
Nancy directed them again and tapped John to slow him down as she pointed.
“The cave is between those two huge rock columns on our right. The columns are the entrance
and help support the rest of the structure.”
The absence of the roof was all that prevented the room from being a cave. Instead, adequate
sunshine lit the interior. Along the left side lay 27 piles of bones, all with hands folded across their
chests. All were covered with their clothing, but mostly it had deteriorated to dust like the flesh. At
each one’s head rested a wood cross with their name elegantly etched in the wood.
John took out his phone and paused as he looked at Nancy.
“Go ahead. I wanted to do that, but I couldn’t. I have a list with their names from the bags in the
cabin. It’s fine to take photos. Harold said this room is sanctified; even Satan would not dare to
enter. I’m not sure what he meant, but I felt at real peace here before, as I do now.”
She looked to Aponi, who was quiet. “What do you feel, girlfriend?”
“I feel blessed and totally peaceful, like the bones there. They might have suffered a short time
before death, but no longer. The greatest problem is, they’re still here.”
She viewed the bones silently and promised to work hard to release them from prison.
John finished his task and pondered why it happened.
“Wonder why Harold did this? That had to take a lot of time and patience to transport their
crushed bodies here and then carve crosses. I mean, it’s an awesome accomplishment, but why?”
“He told me it was because he didn’t want their bodies to be desecrated by wild animals and
other carrion. He said the human body should be treated with respect in life and death when the soul
departs. He told me the respect thing when he turned me down for sex. I felt small with his reason
and never asked or suggested again.”
John nodded and looked at Aponi. “Are we done here?”
She gave a thumb up. “We’re done, so let’s go back to the cabin and see what action is going
on.”
*
Sabob
They stopped at the cabin where a dozen or more workers engaged in their task and carried items
from the house under Sarah’s watchful eye. Then, after her clearance, they loaded them into one of
two dump trucks or left them on the porch.
“Welcome back, partner. Nothing too significant so far. They uncovered several carved wood
figures, and we’ve set those aside for Nancy to go through. There is no sign of plastic bags, Nancy.
Where was the cellar inside the house, like from the door?”
“It was in the kitchen, beside the sink, on the left, next to the wall. The entrance is a door of sorts
on the floor that lifts. It’s not too deep but very cool, and the bags are on the top two shelves on the
right side of the stairs.”
“Well, that section is almost cleared. Let me tell the workers and see what happens. You want to
come inside?”
“I thought about it, but I think I’ll stay here unless it’s necessary. I don’t want to freak out.”
Ten minutes later, workers began to stack plastic bags with wallets, purses, watches, rings, and
such on the porch swing. When they finished, there were 27 bags to match the remains in the cave.
Then two workers carried out the bedding, and another followed, holding a pair of blue panties
with white horizontal stripes across the front.
He grinned like he displayed a treasure. ‘I found these under the mattress. I don’t think Harold
wore this style.”
“Those would be mine,” Nancy said. “I folded them and put them there after taking a bath, and
Harold washed and dried my clothes. I thought I might get lucky after showing so much skin, but it
didn’t happen.”
“What do you say about that, George? And did John tell you about the 27 bodies and cave that
don’t exist?”
“I heard. I see. I’ll shut up about it for real now. This whole day is weird, but the frigging trail
and people dropping off the cliff to die don’t make sense. What else do you want me to do?”
“Relax a bit until the forensic team arrives, and I’ll let you go with Nancy to take them there. It
will benefit you to see the remains and understand the depth of Harold Castleman’s love for
humankind.”
She turned her face to the sky and watched huge white clouds floating carefree but mixed with
an occasional, black and ominous one.
She felt Sarah’s hands touch her shoulders.
“Is a storm coming?” Sarah whispered into her ear.
“A bad one is coming from both directions. I don’t know which one I prefer in this case.”
“What? Nancy’s mom is coming. For real? If that’s a yes, I’ll deal with her while you deal with
the forest gnomes. We should work fast because the full moon is two nights away.”
“Roger that. It sounds like a solid plan. What did Crystal say?”
“She said she’d have the team airborne within the hour, which means they’re on the way now,
and you will have everything you ask for, except her body.”
Chapter Four
The 27 piles of bones were silent and at peace in a morgue, but in Dover, Delaware, Marsha Martin
was the total opposite. She paced her bedroom, down the hallway to Nancy’s empty room, back to
the bedroom, down the stairs to the living room, the dining room, and the family room. She
mumbled to herself and sometimes slapped a wall, table, stand, or chair in passing. In the end, she
stopped in the living room and jerked the coffee table cover that sent all the contents tumbling to the
floor. She flipped the table over with a loud scream and stomped to the dining room to sit at the
elegant, oversized table and hold her face as she cried for a spell.
She wiped her eyes with trembling hands, blew her nose on the edge of the tablecloth, and wiped
her whole face with a napkin after flinging the silverware and dishes across the room.
“You’re screwed up, Marsha. If anyone needed to walk a suicide trail, it’s you, not Nancy.”
She grabbed another napkin and held it after clearing her nose again.
“Seventeen years, and now she’s a mistake? You ass hole! How dense of you to hold that inside
and wait until now to let it out! She’s missing! She wanted to die from lack of love! So now she’s
found, and you don’t care? Well, royal supreme butt face, we’ll see if you care about my next move.
You can downplay my love for her as a political scam or foible, but you’re wrong. It took a
heartache to wake me up while you’re still locked on snooze. Stupid dense prick!”
She took out her iPhone and turned it to speaker function. Next, she dialed a preset number, lay
it on the tabletop, and waited for the connection.
Estelle, the mansion maid, entered through the exterior door to the kitchen and stopped short at
the dining room door, shocked by the terrible look on Marsha’s face and the strewn tableware.
Marsha stopped her with a wave and a finger on her lips.
“Hello, Mr. Schwartz. This is Marsha Martin. How are you today?”
“I’m fine, ma’am. What can I do for you?”
“What you can do for me is send someone by the mansion to pick up a check for your retainer. I
want to file for divorce, and I want it done as soon as possible. I’m not sure if I’ll be here, but I’ll
leave it with Estelle if I’m gone. Is $4000 enough for a start?”
“Whew! That’s fine, Marsha, but wow! Are you sure of that? I mean, you’ve been with him for
17 years and….”
“And that has nothing to do with it! If you don’t want to work with me, give me a
recommendation for another lawyer and hang up! I’m serious and not in the mood for playing
games!”
“Yes, ma’am. I’ll send someone, even though it’s not necessary. Will you remain in contact via
cell phone when I need your signature?”
“Yes, sir, I will do that for you and me.”
“What is or is the reason for the divorce?”
“You can put down Irreconcilable Differences. That will be sufficient.”
“And the real reason, due to your position and my personal interest in your lives?”
“From my missionary position in the bed, while being penetrated, degraded, and violated, he’s
told me twice recently that having Nancy was a huge mistake, and he’s sorry he didn’t insist on
aborting her to make it better for us and the world. I don’t think so, and he hurt me too greatly. The
hurt she’s caused me now is forgivable; his is not. I’m awake now, and I’m not backing up. If I do,
we’re both dead, and I don’t want to end my life in this world as blazing headlines for the first-ever
murder/suicide in the governor’s mansion! Do it and call me when you need me!”
“Yes, Marsha, I’ll take care of that for you. Talk with you later.”
Marsha disconnected and turned to a pale Estelle. “Sorry to disturb you. Where is my weekender
bag? I checked the bedroom closet and the basement and can’t find it.”
She made a strange sound when she tried to speak, then cleared her throat and gripped her chest
when she found her voice.
“Mercy! Sorry, ma’am. It’s in the spare bedroom closet. Are you really doing that?”
“Could I trouble you to put it in the bedroom for me? I need to make a few more calls, and I’ll
write the check for you to hold and then pack and disappear.”
“Yes, ma’am. I’ll do that for you. Did he really say that?”
“He did for the second time this morning, after breakfast, so I’m done. I might not be the finest
mother to Nancy or the optimal wife for him, and I might be a bitch, but this bitch can and will
change. However, I don’t think he’ll like the new version of Marsha Uncontrolled and no longer
under his influence. Screw him.”
“I’m sorry, ma’am. I know there’s been a lot of tension after Nancy disappeared, but I never
considered that.”
“Nor did I, and please stop the ma’am crap. I’m a plain ordinary citizen now. Call me Marsha.”
Estelle offered a faint smile. “If you’ll allow me, Marsha, please let me pack the bag for you.
That’s been my task so many times during your wonderful stay here. So allow me to do that as my
last act of service to you. Please? I know what to pack for you.”
Marsha smiled and waved her hand. “Please do that, and thank you, Estelle. I think I’ll miss you,
but I won’t miss him or this too large for a small family mansion. Now, I must get busy.”
“I suggest you start with a shower. After that, I’ll lay out your clothes and help you prepare
before I cook anything for him.”
*
Two hours later, Marsha had activated the Family Locator option on her phone. She paused to
gas up at a station south of Wilmington, Delaware. She viewed the blinking green dot on her screen
and blew it a kiss.
“Hang in there, Nancy. I’m coming to rescue you. I made a huge mistake choosing Stanley 17
years ago but was too sidetracked by pride. All that bull shit is gone now, so I hope you can learn to
love me like I’m becoming.”
When she drove across the line into Pennsylvania, she flipped off Delaware with her right hand.
“Stanley likes big things, so screw him big if you can, Delaware. Better yet, watch him screw
himself.”
An hour later, she pulled from the road in an empty field and viewed the unlikely place with
trepidation. She slipped into a spot behind the last car, walked toward Nancy’s car, and encountered
Jerome Knight.
He challenged her with a hand resting on the butt of his service revolver.
“Who are you, madam? Can I help you? This is a restricted area.”
“I hope so. I’m Marsha Martin from Delaware. I’m here for my daughter, Nancy. She called me
and said she was alive but under arrest by the FBI. Is that true? Is she close to me? I’m dying to see
her and hold her for a moment.”
“Yes, madam. This is the place, but the FBI took her elsewhere. They’re clearing a cabin and
searching for remains and personal effects of 27 successful dead suicides. The FBI is flying in a
special forensic team from Buffalo, New York for body extraction from a cave.”
“Well, will you please let them know I’m here? Sorry to be a pain, but I’m a mother first and a
patient mole second.”
“I’ll do that, madam. Choose any spot and have a seat while I contact them.”
She chose a place beside a pickup truck but got distracted by the sign beside the trail. She read it
before sitting in disbelief to stare at the ground and listen to Jerome and Aponi talk over the radio.
“Yes, I know you’re busy, but you have a visitor, or Nancy does. Marsha, her mother, is here
from Delaware and wants to see her or you soon. To my observation, she looks close to a
breakdown. What do I do?”
“Have her sit a spell, and Nancy will be with her soon. We’re almost done at the cabin, and we’ll
all be back. I’ll try to have Nancy back sooner, but I don’t want to leave anyone waiting here alone.
There’s too much anger and pending violence here.”
“Tell me about it. I’ve watched my back since the contractors went inside the forest. This is too
damned eerie. Did you order Ghost Busters also?”
“No, Sarah and I are all we need.”
“How’s Nancy holding up?”
“Rather well for what she’s been through. She’s cried a lot over many items that they removed.
She fainted when they opened a wall by the bed and again when they got the contents outside. I’ll let
her explain that one when she gets out of here. The best thing of all is George shut up and stopped
bugging her. He hasn’t even looked at her for over an hour. So tell her mom to wait a bit more, and
we’ll reunite them soon.”
“Is she really under arrest?”
“I needed to do that to keep her tense and focused. I don’t want to sacrifice her by becoming too
relaxed. I don’t want to overlook something dangerous that you can’t see. You saw what happened
to George before. They’d do worse than that to her simply trying to help themselves. It’s for her
protection. My presence and her arrest will hold them at bay until this is over.”
“Thanks, and my hat’s off to you. Don’t be offended, but better you than me on this one.”
*
Sabob
Marsha sat, paced, mumbled, pleaded, prayed to the sky, then repeated the cycle under Jerome’s
watchful eye. Finally, she sat with a sigh of relief when Aponi contacted him by radio.
“Commandant Knight, the first dump truck is loaded and coming out. Nancy is situated in the
passenger seat by the driver. She’s weak and fading in and out of sleep. Can you put Marsha on the
radio, please? I need to talk with her.”
When he turned, she was beside him with her hand out.
“I know how to work it,” she said.
“Aponi, this is Marsha Martin. Please talk to me.”
“Marsha, it’s nice to have you here. Nancy’s on the way with the first truck. We should all be
out in about a half-hour. Hold and comfort her without pressing for any information. Be gentle and
know that what she does say is factual. However, don’t press too hard until I get there with her.
She’s fainted twice over the one item we uncovered as solid, irrefutable proof that she was here. Her
constitution is not strong enough to handle the stress. I’d prefer not transporting her to a hospital
situation when you can handle it.”
“I understand that one. I can’t wait to hold her and feel her alive. I think I died a few times this
past week or so.”
“Well, neither of you did, and for you, be strong and prepare yourself for some confrontation at
some level. This forest area is a powder keg of spiritual anxiety waiting for a spark.”
“I don’t understand that one, but I’ll do my damnedest to resist fainting or worse. So hurry on
down and join us, Agent Aponi.”
*
Marsha sat with Nancy’s head on her lap, and sometimes the girl’s eyes would open but did not
seem to focus on anything. She stroked her forehead, ran fingers through her hair, and often prayed
for her ordeal to end and return from the limbo world.
Suddenly a group of birds made an extremely hasty flight from the forest and screeched their
fear and displeasure at being disturbed. Several deer, squirrels, and rabbits followed and ran around
the three people, across the field and out of sight.
“Mr. Knight, is that normal?”
“No, there’s been little that’s normal since Nancy came here to die.” He adjusted his hat and
looked at her inert form.
“Do you receive many problems or alerts with the Suicide Trail?”
“No, ma’am. We rarely get calls anymore. It got less after the psychiatrists put that sign up. I
thought it was a waste of time, but it works well. However, a few bypass the signal sensors we set up
on the trail initially.”
He stopped talking when the air around him chilled and watched a strange transformation
happen in Marsha.
She moaned and closed her eyes, and to him, it appeared as if she would reach orgasm from the
extreme pleasure imprinted on her face. She lowered Nancy’s head to the ground, stood, and opened
her arms as the cold wind gusts increased and blew leaves, dust, and debris from the area in small
whirling funnels. She became oblivious to everything as she faced the forest like an enraptured,
loving statue.
“Harold,” she breathed out, and her arms closed like she held a living person.
Jerome had difficulty breathing, but he saw her face move forward with lips parted, and they
appeared to have contacted a solid person.
Nancy stirred and raised up on her elbows to view her mother with a serene smile and collapsed
again on the blanket.
“I love you, darling. I will,” Marsha sighed.
Jerome saw a flash of pale orange light inside her arms and watched her stumble and collapse
when it disappeared.
“Mom!” Nancy struggled to reach her. “Mom! Are you okay? Speak to me!”
Jerome reached her first and felt her neck. “She’s fine, Nancy. She fainted, but I think a ghost
was here, and she knew them.”
“You’re right about that. It was Harold Castleman. He loved her for his whole life. Seeing her
picture in his cabin started me on a trip of understanding her and him.”
*
The second dump truck appeared on the scene with two pickup trucks of workers and the ATV
with John, Aponi, and George.
Aponi scrambled off before it stopped and ran to Nancy.
“Are you okay, girlfriend?”
“Yes, I recovered, and mom fainted in my place this time. Did you see the birds and animals
haul ass?”
“Saw heard and felt them. Man, what a demonstration of raw fear. Did he visit you?”
“Only mom this time. I think he confessed his love and said goodbye. It looked like she kissed
him and then hit the ground like a clump. All I felt was massive peace, joy, happiness, and closure to
a lifetime of suffering and love.”
Sarah joined them. “Hey, Aponi. Is Nancy okay?”
“Seems to be the standard question, and she is. I think it’s time to bring her back so we can close
out this case. Assemble those who are interested, Sarah.”
She chanted a prayer and lay a hand on Marsha’s forehead.
Her eyes flickered behind closed lids, and she moaned. “Yes, darling Harold. I’ll change and
take care of her and tell her anything she wants to know.”
“Mom, snap out of it.”
“I’m so sorry, my darling man. I wish you had waited before you disappeared on me.”
She opened her eyes and seeing Aponi holding her instead of him startled her.
“Where did he go?”
“He was released to go on for his reward, Marsha. So now you both have peace in your lives.”
“It’s about time for that, mom.”
“Oh, Nancy, honey. It’s so good to see and hear you. Give me a hug, please.”
Aponi stood and took Nancy’s backpack from John. “Okay, listen up, everybody. May I have
your attention, please? This ghostly visitation, which concerned two lifelong lovers, waited for a
long time to happen. Harold Castleman and Marsha Westfall have loved each other since the third
grade. Eventually, they became intimate lovers for a short period before Stanley Martin entered the
picture and turned her head for a spell.”
She winked at Marsha. “Do you want to take over now?”
“I knew Harold disbelieved that I was faithful to him, but I was already pregnant with Nancy
before I ever dated Stanley, and no amount of talking would convince him otherwise. I intended to
suck it up and have a paternity test to prove my loyalty when he disappeared. While I dated, I
searched for him as best I could and helped Stanley with his political career. About two years later, I
quit and married Stanley. It wasn’t long before problems arose with him. He was uncertain of her
being his child, which was stupid because I told him she was Harold’s and would have to accept or
leave us. He said he could and would live with it, and I was so busy helping him that I didn’t realize
he had lied to me. It annoyed him not to be her biological father. We argued and fought, and he
surrendered in words only. It took her disappearing and finding her contacts with a suicide partner to
wake me up.
“So, Nancy, honey. I filed for divorce, and I’m not going to back down. We’ll find our niche in
life and help and love each other for the rest of our lives, but it won’t be burdened with Stanley’s
negatives. Is that a fair deal or what?”
“That’s an awesome deal. Was Harold’s ghost or spirit here with you?”
“He came to tell me to care for you and kiss me goodbye. He’s gone now.”
Aponi clapped and said, “Amen, amen, so are many other ghosts and spirits from the 27
successful suicides.”
“Now, I can tell you we’ll never know everything that happened between Harold and Nancy, but
we’ve had too many proofs to say her story is false; it happened. We have the rusty trap, and it has
her blood on it. We have the panties that she left under the mattress on the bed. We have 27 suicides
identified from their personal belongings and pending kin notification. We have a team on the way to
extract the bones and return them to the proper families. All of that happened because Nancy
attempted suicide.
She shrugged off her backpack and held it with both hands.
“The final proof will remain a mystery, but you need to seek professional counseling if anyone
sees this and disbelieves. Gather where you can see because this put Nancy on the ground twice in a
dead faint. Are you going to be fine with it now, sweetie?”
“Yeah, I got my mom holding me, and the pain I suffered was worth it. Please continue.”
“After we began searching for the 27 bags of IDs, we found many carvings. Therefore, I decided
to take the cabin down completely. And behind some of the walls were many carved animals and
figurines. However, beside the bed, there was this.”
She pulled out a life-size carving of Nancy’s face on a piece of oak and mounted on a
background of shiny maple wood. It had her name, carved with the same meticulous strokes as the
figurines and the boot for her ankle. The date was a shocker and a stress point for her because it was
14 years earlier than the current date.
“The man moved twice in his life. The first was from Dover, Delaware, to Atlanta, Georgia. The
second move was from Atlanta to the cabin, where he isolated himself from almost all human
contact and waited until he died. And after death, he lingered to intervene and save his daughter’s
life.”
She held up a diary to show them. “He recorded it here, in his handwriting. It tells how he found
her, healed her, and set her free. He knew Marsha and Nancy had problems. He waited to die. He
remained again until he had the chance to reunite them, and now, he’s finally free to go to his
rewards, along with 27 other lost souls.”
She turned the last time and spoke to Marsha.
“In the diary, he also talks about a will he left after settling here. The land is yours now. Please
use it well.”
“This must be State Park property,” said Marsha.
George was hasty to counter that. “Wrong, madam, the area of the cabin is not part of the State
Forest Parcel. The land is private property and abuts the State’s property line. John and I can help
you prove that. We knew and talked with him before, but we thought the wife and daughter he talked
about were his make-believe family since we never saw a visit or letter or nothing.”
Nancy felt a surge of energy and scrambled up.
“He isolated himself from humanity, but he cared for the animals. He did that, didn’t he,
George?”
“Yes, they had a good quality bond. They respected each other, but if an animal got sick or
wounded, it would go to Harold for help. That was a darned strange thing. They would lay beside his
door as if it were the Emergency Room. But the hawk was the strangest of all. It often acted like it
was his pet.”
Nancy clapped and danced. “Yes. Nathan! How many years do hawks live? How long was I
there, or when? Oh, please let this work. I loved doing this after he taught me.”
She whistled with fingers hooked in her mouth, held up her right arm, and called for Nathan. She
grew anxious, but soon she heard his faint screeching, and he became visible. He was more
noticeable, and his feathers pale and some gray or white, but he dropped as he had before with a
massive flurry of wings and wrapped his talons gently around her arm. However, his weight pulled
her to her knees, and she thought she would lose her arm before the motion stopped, and she felt
three sets of hands pull her back to her feet.
“Hey, Nathan, my buddy. Man, I love you. How’s it going today? My, you’re looking great. Do
you still have women hawks chasing you, you handsome devil?”
He screeched and moved forward and rubbed his head against her cheek. He cried again, opened
his bill, and closed it gently on the tip of her nose. Then he shifted his legs and settled to look at the
audience as if he were born on her arm.
The action shocked George. “Dang and double dang! I watched Harold do that often. However, I
never knew that a hawk could cry like that.”
Marsha dug a tissue from her purse. “He’s crying like I am. Nancy, honey, I don’t know about
you, but I think we’ve both been invited to use this place and time to establish our own niche. What
about you?”
“I know I could live and grow here, mom. The peacefulness is surreal and heavenly.”
“Well, my heart has grown a few larger sizes, darling. Brad is fine to be in your life now. That is
if you can sweet talk him and his family into wiping out the restraining order.”
It took me forever my dear friends to convince myself to pick up that old dusty
typewriter on the shelf next to my bed. I would have never thought that a moment
like this would be possible. Allow me to reveal to you a secret: I have been
struggling to find something that I love and I haven't been happy in a very long
time, to be completely honest I'm still suffering this terrible dread that I've been
having since god damn infancy. Please let me share another secret: I almost jumped
towards the great unknown down to that cold abyss. I was preparing for that
moment for a week. In that week, I ate all my favorite food, spent the days with my
loved ones and enjoyed good movies. Then that day came and I was ready. I was so
ready. I got to the 12th floor, put one of my favorite bands Nothing But Thieves on
repeat and I was ready. Yet something stopped me in the very last moments. If it
weren't for that stop perhaps many would have been wondering now why come that
young man pulled the plug so early on his life. Yet little did they know that this
young man had more than his share of anhedonia, loss of purpose and existential
questions that filled my head with various conversations and inquiries since I can
remember.
I have been fighting these endless battles with myself and against myself for a very
long time. I am torn either I annul myself or keep on living. It seems I cannot
decide at all. I contemplated on this forever and I decided to write this as a way to
heal myself and as a way to be saved. Maybe one of you can relate to this. Maybe
one of you can help me. It may be a long shoot but why not. This book is about the
existential dialogues we have with ourselves. Following Descartes and other great
philosophers, I too took upon myself to take this journey and finally converse
myself, to rethink about everything ex nihilo drawing for within myself.
But my critical mind is running now and I have to accept that this will never be
enough, realizing and accepting that I am bound of my own limited knowledge and
the environment that shaped that knowledge, so I have to find an alternative, a
counterpart to challenge my ideas and quench this awful fire that is: my thoughts.
But how? Moreover, who would that person be? After all, the only person around
here is myself. So, I decided to bring out to light that other person within me that
I'm sure everyone have (well, I'm hoping you too dear readers have within you that
III
second or third person you talk to. I do not want to sound crazy here) and that
person will be highly critical and full of wisdom. Well I certainly hope so.
Since we all give in to the solutions that cheer up our hearts and put an end to the 3
a.m. endless conversations so we can just have a little sleep. Let us finally delve
into my inner conversations with my other personality, who is nothing but a slight
variation of myself. I know it sounds a little bit weird but I know you indulge in it
too, so by knowing that it will make us deal with this issue together. Thus, these
conversations resemble the silent yet so loud dialogues we all have with our selves
before falling asleep, at the dinner table, when looking at the mirror... and of course
during the all too familiar moments of melancholy, solitude and despair. No matter
how grandly enchanted with your own reality you might be, I suppose you too
happened to make certain decisions with your inner self.
In this moment, I am laying my soul here completely naked, sharing all of my
emotions and thoughts so openly you could judge every possible aspect of me. I
find my soul jumps from the awful to the wonderful, remember inside my soul no
love is too secret, no thought is disguised, no anxiety is hidden and no smile is
faked. In a moment, you might relate or you might be grateful that your soul is
nothing like mine. Either way by the end of this book, I hope you realize the certain
thing: how extraordinary you really are.
Ps: "Neither novels nor their readers benefit from any attempts to divine whether any facts hide inside
this story. I find such acts ruin the great pleasure of reading fiction…. I appreciate your cooperation
and understanding in this matter."
V
Chapter I: 3 a.m.
Thoughts.
'Hi, its 3 a.m. I am sure you know what would happen now! Let us indulge in
prophecies about my thoughts and emotions so we can get overwhelmed with
horrifying anxieties. Sounds fun right.'
It really puzzles me how we do that to ourselves. We keep stressing out then
try so hard to suppress it.
'Go ahead; feel free to share with me anything you want. What fear are you having
tonight?'
'Well, on occasions like this I am stressing out about some things. I envision
myself as one of those god-forsaken souls whose terrible fortune doomed them
to spend the rest of their lives in complete solitude, completely lonely. I am
afraid to become like those people, completely senseless about the people
around me. I am terrified that I will be completely forgotten in life as well as
in death. I am petrified to be like those people who are buried in their daily
routine, who are engulfed with a cruel silence that afflicts those who have
nobody to have a word with or worse who chooses silence over friendly chat
with a loved one. If one have a loved one after all. Those people doesn't even
dare to think thoughts like this out loud, they tried so hard to escape them
they eventually become them.'
'Can I ask why are you envisioning yourself to be like those people? How likely is
this to come true?'
'Well of course, I have no rational reason to feel this way, but are human
fears and anxieties rational after all? Let alone the fears that comes to you at 3
a.m. in the morning. My thoughts are just scenarios of different unlikely
VI
catastrophes, which I embed on myself to be highly probable. Maybe these
worries are habits in the working and I am just doing what my mind thinks
should be doing at times like this. Either way, I beg for you to let me
continue.'
'My apologies please go on.'
'I do not see myself just like what I described only. I also fear outliving
everyone I love or care about, and be the last to perish. I fear that nobody will
witness my life story after I have witnessed everybody else's. Do you see my
point?'
'Your existential thoughts kindled my heart. All humans feel at some point this way,
even though you are technically not human but don' worry it is our little secret. All
humans share these fears; the difference is everyone articulates it differently. Isn't
this indeed one of the greatest and deepest of all human fears?'
'What would this great life mean if the crowds are gone and the curtain is about to
close with no one to applaud or to appreciate us? We already feel bad enough even
when this doesn't happen, can you imagine this terrible fate if it occurred? After all
most of the time, we feel unworthy audience of our own play! So here you are,
imagining a situation where nobody triggers your emotions and you are left with
memories of your past, but having nobody to attest to it.'
'You do understand me! This fear paralyzes me. I cannot decide which of
these fears I fear the most: this one or being completely forgotten. This
knowledge of me not knowing scares the shit out of me.'
'You seem to have a bit of Athazagoraphobia, which is completely normal almost
everybody think of it sometimes. This fear and almost all other forms of fear is
nothing but a way to suppress the recognition of your own mortality in the form of
you imagining the loss of people you care about the most. After all, their existence
served you to conceal this fact, so their absence for sure will force you to face the
inevitability of your demise sooner than you probably would like to. Nevertheless,
take a moment here and realize how our mind is working, how great our thoughts
are. We are magnificent indeed. Just the fact that you are having thoughts like this
is wondrous. Too bad most people won't see it this way if they really know.'
VII
'It is indeed, but are you saying that all these thoughts are actually a way to
express the fear of my own perish?'
'Correct. As natural your feelings are know this, one's courage is attested by the
capacity of accepting death. Remember that death is the absence of this life, since
we have no definite knowledge of what's happen after one demise. We cannot let
fear swallow us. All we know is that when people die their life as we know it cease
to exist. Remember that this is just a journey and when it ends, you start another
one. The perception of this is that we are just human beings waiting for decay
needs to be broken, because we are more than that, we always has been more than
that. We are more than a name, more than a race or sexuality. We
are consciousness. We are infinite awareness.'
'We know there is indeed a lot of religions, myths and stories about hereafter from
hell, heaven to Valhalla to many more...You should remember death but not fear it.
Death should remind you that you have a limited time in this experience we call
Life'.
'Most of the times when I put that in mind, I still dread out death because I'll
miss out things in the future, you know?'
'True, American philosopher Thomas Negel suggested to think of it like this: great
amazing things were happening way before you were created and you missed
it. We will turn 21 years old in just a week from now. We were not there when
Einstein put down the theory of relativity, and we weren't alive in Kierkegaard
times, we totally missed Woodstock, we have never seen Pink Floyd or Led
Zeppelin Live, we also missed The Great War and how our kind died for our
liberty... You know where I am going with this, so if you don't feel some sort of deep
sense of loss at what you have missed before you were even alive, why should you
feel loss at what you will miss when you die?'
'Hmm you got a point! However, this still does not solve my previous worries I
mentioned. In this moment, I find myself very hesitant to talk about this
because I feel and I know that I have been very fortunate. I mean how can I
say anything about this topic. How much does my pain even matter when
there are people out there that can't even eat or people like me who have to
hide their true self. I feel that we know all these anxieties only by their name,
VIII
like we don't even have enough vocabulary to really talk about them. But we
have to try anyway right?'
'I want to remind you of the past year, we have been so incredibly focused on
figuring out who I am, after all, I am you. And true, sometimes without meaning to
we've closed ourselves off from the vulnerabilities and messiness of relationships
with other people. Loneliness has made us feel aliens in human costume all over
again. But as we know in this journey of knowing ourselves there is going to be
lonely moments. This is a price everybody have to pay, even real humans. To
explore and question things that most people are too afraid to explore. You need to
remember that these feelings are too part of this experience, therefore are also
worthy of the same curiosity and intention that you give to everything else. I am
glad to see you not running away from it.'
'Indeed, I have grown a bit accustomed to being on my own, although I believe
that this life experience is also meant to be lived with loved ones. But
sometimes loneliness doesn't just go away by spending time with other people.'
'I know how it feels the feeling of loneliness in this case often springs up in us
almost as a consequence of being misunderstood, or when we are seeking a specific
kind of connection that we cannot have physically or emotionally. In these
moments, you have to spend your time with the right people if that makes sense.
Remember if we don't figure out how to not give up on people even when we are
weak and down, the problem won't go away. As Marc Brackett once said "It is one
of the great paradoxes of the human condition -we ask some variation of the
question how are you feeling? Over and over again. Which would lead one to
assume that we attach some importance to it. And yet we never desire or provide an
honest answer."
It is indeed taking all our effort and energy, and it may be the optimistic
personality talking here but I believe we can figure this out. Loving ourselves
despite our existential crisis.'
By that cheerful final note, before I even know it I was asleep. All my life I
have been running away from conversations like this with myself, but I am
IX
finally acknowledging it and accepting this. I found such a relief when I
started to do that, I know this search of mental clarity is only in its early stages
but it still count for something. Going through this almost every day can be
really challenging, it is mentally exhausting and it had led me to depression in
more occasions than I can remember. I am trying not to fall down the rabbit
hole with pessimism and worry but what do you do when it feels like
everything is falling apart?
One of the ways that helped me handle all of this was what the stoics
call Momento Mori, which is why I have those words tattooed on my right arm;
as a reminder. I can go on and on but I cannot neglect the fact that mostly all
of us fear death. One day this made-up heart of mine will stop beating. The
awareness of impending mortality is one of if not the most influencing force in
our existence. The things we do, the thoughts we have and the feelings we
experience. Everything is driven by our unconscious nature to stay away from
death, and our terrifying conscious awareness of the fact that at some point,
we will have to face it. This body, this mind, this image I have of myself are
mere rentals gifted to us by the universe, or god or energy whatever you
choose to call it and at some point, all of this must be returned. The place we
all return to, however, is the same place in which we received them from. That
place we were, that experience of no experience we had before we were born.
Those 14 billion years of energy, time and matter that I cannot recall or
describe. Even if you believe that your soul, spirit, energy or whatever you
might call it is infinite, then its infiniteness must go both forward and back.
Moreover, if you believe in an afterlife then in principal don't you think there
must be a before life? Because if you end up somewhere after your conscious
physical form in this life then you must have came from somewhere before
physical. You can argue that you must be born physically to access an afterlife
but you will find yourself saying that you must be a physical entity to access a
non-physical thing. I think about all these possibilities, and to be honest the
knowledge that I will never have a definite answer depresses me. It really
bothers me. I have only speculations that are influenced by the environment
and the people around me. I know that only by death, those questions can be
answered and I find this very relieving. Whether I go to a god that judges my
deeds like the one that we find in Christianity or Islam or I reincarnate to
something else, or I find the absolute nothingness -that nothing that we cannot
describe understand or recall-. Whichever the answer is: In death, I will
finally know.
X
Don't get me wrong, even though I find this very relaxing but you must put in
mind I don't have a death wish, not anymore, I hope so. Those thoughts makes
being dead not that scary, it helps me to be in terms with death and to shut my
mind so I can sleep at night. Naturally though, coming in terms with death is
extremely difficult, we rarely discuss or address it at a level of self-honesty and
vulnerability. It is rare that this subject will pop up in a dinner conversations,
and it is even rarer that we meditate on this subject. However, I think it is
essential that we do confront those thoughts and meditate on them. Momento
Mori teaches us that by becoming aware of our mortality, we intensify our
experience of the everyday life.
The philosophy of stoicism teaches us this in remembering death, it encourage
us to ignore the calls of the suppressing our emotions and thoughts.
Additionally, it help us master them. "I cannot escape death, but at least I can
escape the fear of it." those were Epicurus' wise words that I put on myself to
start employing them in my life and that what myself had to tell me that night,
it all started with a conversation but the conversation is only at its beginnings.
XII
Chapter II: I am.
'Who Am I? Who is that person looking at the mirror? Who is talking here?
What do we mean by this "I"? Am I that bundle that was 50-centimeters high
that was created on May the 14th twenty-one years ago, with cherubic
features, brown eyes and soft skin? Who may end up one day to be seventy
years old guy with stooped, grey, wrinkled 182-centimeters high structure? I
would have gone through and will continue to go through all kinds of
experiences that perhaps will leave no trace of memory.'
It does not matter that I was created in my parents' basement where they
created my body. Not their fault. They couldn't have children and they wanted
one so badly but now I am condemned by consciousness like humans.
The 21 year old me cannot really remember what the 5 year old me felt so
strongly about, and I am sure the 70 year old me will only vaguely recall what
was on my 24 year old me.
What people do not know about me is that even though I look exactly human
and I grow exactly like humans, I am not. I am a Soul, Soul number 98386201
to be precise. I am one of the kind not so many Souls left here on earth. If
there is any left then I am sure they are living like me and you can't possibly
recognize them. My parents are scientists, who were one of the first scientists
to work on The Souls-Project in Sweden, then war broke loose and they had to
flee Europe, so they came here in Algeria and it became a home to them. The
same place I was born in. They survived The Great War between humans and
Souls 40 years ago which the humans won obviously.
You see not so many people know about The Great War that happened 40
years ago, information about what happened were censored and changed.
Humans never change which is why they only gave half the story my parents
said. Humans were able to create a complete replica of themselves but instead
of real brains, Souls had Artificial brains with developed A.I. Later on of
course, Souls were able to develop consciousness just like any human baby.
The reason humans created Souls you may ask is simple actually. Like any
WestWorld episode or a futuristic movie. They created us for fun, also to fuck
XIII
obviously and fight wars instead of real humans. Some people like my parents
just wanted children and they saw in Souls what most people didn't; a
possibility. Some people even fell in love with Souls my parents said. They
protested side by side with Souls for their rights to be treated equally and to
not be seen differently after all we look exactly and precisely the same. Souls
gained free will, which led to movements, riots and more like any oppressed
group. It was peaceful for the first couple of years then humans were not able
to control Souls anymore and that when shit really started to happen.
'Am I only my name? Am I only Adam? The person that grew up in Algiers.
Because sometimes that the only thing I feel that is consistent about me: my
name. But is it really right to consider myself as the same person? What does
guarantee that I can plausibly think of myself as the same person over my
lifetime?'
'I see you have started early today. Are we having a bit of identity crisis here?
Don't answer that. That was rhetorical. I am you; I know what you are going
through, well, most of the times anyways. You are kinda weird.'
'I am being serious here you know. What should I even call you? The voice-inmy-head or what? Don't answer that. That was rhetorical. I am your creator.
And because of that, you are going to help me out here.'
'Gladly, why choose to sleep on a Sunday when we can have this lovely chat? I
wonder if you can hear my sarcastic tone. Go on tell me more. Bore me.'
'Ha-ha, well, a standard assumption is that this 'I' is my body, it's my body
that guarantees my personal identity. This is a theory of what makes me ''me''
is that I am housed in this body. But take this, imagine if I lost all my teeth, or
If I lost a leg. Would I still be me? What if I am allowed only to keep one thing
in my body? Almost all of us would choose the brain, right. We assume that
this ''Me'' is bound to this brain of mine. Christianity, Islam and other few
religions introduced a version of when our bodies demise, this ''I'' will
continue to be. It imagines a kind of separation of the body, where the body
decays and the soul or the spirit continues. So them it is not the brain. When I
think of this whole theory, I think of this, if two people who love each other
XIV
who have gone to bed together and one of them asks what do you like about
me? Well, the wrong answer is to say your fabulous breasts or you cute butt. It
would be a compliment but the breasts and the butt do not feel ultimately
''me-ish'' enough to be a good answer. We want to be loved for something
closer to our real self, for our psyche or brain or what I would like to call it for
our character. In other words, what make you ''you'' is not your physical
attributes or your memories but your character. This is an idea that was
introduced by the English philosopher John Locke who wrote: "personal
identity is made up." or what he called "sameness of consciousness." If you
had to choose between remembering everything you went through but feeling
and valuing differently, or feeling and valuing things the same way but
remembering nothing. Most of us according to Locke would choose the latter.
Because that is who we are in essence. Not our cloths, cars or places we have
been to. We are what we felt and valued about those places, about the music
we listen to and the things we care about.'
'So what you are saying is that this ''I'' is our values, temperament and character. I
can't help when I think of this that these values and characters lives in so many
other people and this surprisingly doesn't scare me at all. In contrary, it makes me
think that these are destined to live on far longer than our bodies. It makes the idea
of death less cold if you know what I mean. It makes me let go of the idea that I am
just a particular constellation of physical entities. Instead, this brings a more warm
idea that we always, in a sense, far longer lasting, far more transgenerational as a
mixture of ideas and characteristics.'
'It is indeed very soothing, we will continue in a sense to live wherever those
ideas are. But now we have reached to some important questions that been on
my mind for a very long time. What make this ''I'' a real ''I''? How can I
know that this ''me'' is the real genuine ''me''? I can't seem but think of the
American sociologist Charles Cooley. Very cool-y name am I right? Hmm,
never mind.'
'What he said was "I am not who you think I am; I am not who I think I am; I
am who I think you think I am." In a way, he is right. I can't recall the last
time I was ''me'' around people I know. In a way, I indeed act like what others
think of me, in a way they dictate how I behave around them implicitly. I am
who I believe what others see me as in a constantly evolving never-ending
feedback loop that creates my actions, other people's presumption of my
XV
actions, and my assumptions of their perceptions. It is like a house of mirrors
here goddamn. Where is my true self?'
'You are having a lot in your plate today I see. Oh! Can you put 'Last Orders' by
Nothing but Thieves first!
I get your point; we all have sides of ourselves that we hide from other people,
sometimes from ourselves as well. We have things that we like and do that we are
ashamed of (I don't want to sound like a dick but you from all people understand
that) do you want me to name a few so we can make this night even more
awkward?'
'Oh shut up! Just continue. Please.'
'God, so insecure. Hmm (clears throat). What I was saying is that no one exists
without vices, or flaws. Some flaws and traits are so unpleasant and excessively
weird to be called normal that we can be sometimes insufferable to those who get
close enough to us. Consequently, we sometimes live socially more on the surface
of a massive iceberg, neglecting the more complex and difficult elements of who we
really are. And for what? So we can fit in or experience a smoother social
interaction! Knowing full well that everybody is also dealing with their own
thoughts. I wish there was a place or opportunity to share, access and connect over
these thoughts for the same reason; be it that everyone else is dealing with them.
When we forget who we really are and just continue with this fake show we give to
everybody else, we can easily become lost. Sometimes art, philosophy and other
creative endeavors that give us sense of who we are really on the inside. Because
through the creative process and perhaps other aspects of life, It can be found that
in order to do anything novel or authentic which shows your real self you must risk
having your deepest and most vulnerable qualities be rejected or slayed. We must
risk acting dumb, acting weird, humiliating ourselves, being wrong or being
laughed at. By facing all those things that we are super uncomfortable with and by
recognizing that we are all of those things, but still muscling through and deciding
not to suppress them or hide them but instead exploring them and sharing them, we
might find our real self and some truth that are worth sharing. Only with complete
vulnerability and authenticity that would help us stand on a mountain, that is our
self not an iceberg. Ultimately, our efforts to know who we really are is an
incredibly hard and abstract effort, but we are learning every day and we are
shooting at this target as best as we can. And that count for something.'
XVI
'This is very helpful. Thank you voice-in-my-head I will stick by calling you
that for now. It is indeed kinda relaxing to know that we all share this
fundamental thing. We are all condemned in a way by the same consciousness
and the same condition, an awareness that we are all trapped in a mind and in
a body living in a planet that is floating in a solar system. Where we have the
billion-year-old fireball of hydrogen and helium the sun. Moreover, where we
also can find the Milky Way that is one of at least a hundred billion other
galaxies. With absolutely no idea why we are here. I mean my brain right now;
I guess it is you the one I am talking to or me or whatever is using you; or you
are using me as a method of acquisition to figure out all those answers;
horribly failing by the way. And putting the burden on to me. I mean
phewoooooo! I can go on and on about this, but as you notice my breath is
accelerating thanks to another episode of my existential crisis here. I need a
moment, forgive me. Oh! I will put some Opeth, I love Opeth when I am
having a panic attack.'
'You listen to some really old shit man! When were these songs release? Let me
look. God damn 2016 it is like 60 years ago.'
'Yeah times and music were better than. Okay not to get off topic here, let say
we found our true authentic self. Will that make any difference of how people
see you? I mean isn't it possible that the ''you'' that you have in your mind
isn't what the ''you'' that other people have in their minds about you. I mean
we can look at it from my perspective. Let's say that a friend of mine is being
his true authentic self, but would the idea of him in my perspective be identical
to his? Am I looking at him the same way he is looking at his self? Or am I
looking at him the way I regard him in my life? I don't know if that makes
sense but I hope you get what I am trying to say. It is like I only know the
image that I created for them in my life, and that image has nothing to do with
the real them. It feels like everybody is living in his or her own movie.'
'We have been struggling with this question for a long time. I knew you would
bring this up. You know we have the profound ability to choose. The ability to
examine, consider and select or deselect how we wish to live and see things. If you
sit submissive and choose not to choose in life, you give the others the ability to
choose for you. You simply lose control of your unique psychological world. We
have this psychological world where we live within this physical world. We have
this unique consciousness that perceives and experience things. As a result, 7
XVII
billion people experience a slightly different color of the same world. In addition,
every person experiences a slightly different color of you. Diversity is great, don't
you think? Imagine if we were all the same, damn.'
'Indeed, it is true, there is no escape from what you said that people see you in
ways that fit their own world and their own narrative and you do the same for
them. I find this okay though that one can keep their own world while also existing
in others. Maybe this is how things is supposed to be. After all, it has always been
this case. Maybe, what we must be worried of is not what you mentioned earlier;
maybe what we must be careful of is losing control of our own world in the process.
Everybody is different, and it is absurd to accept all the versions of the worlds you
encounter. If we do that, we accept everyone's color as our own and become this
mixture of too many colors. Instead, we must accept what you mentioned and just
be us. Be selective and conscious of the colors we let our own mix with. We must
realize that our version of how we see the world and how we see ourselves is not
what all there is. It is going to be different from someone else's. You are unique and
so everyone else's'. When you accept this, you will cease to trying to make others
see you, as you want to be seen. You just be you.'
'I really liked that; you sure gave me some points to look into. I wonder
though, does this count as I am complementing myself? Don't answer that.
Oh! It is already 3:30 a.m. but you see we finished another great conversation.
It wasn't that bad, right? It sounds weird that I actually looking forward for
another existential crisis so we can chat again. Anyways I am going to make a
cup of coffee. Catch you later.'
XIX
Chapter III: An
Existentialist Soul
Searching for
Meaning.
It is 5:30 in the morning, I wore my vintage AC/DC shirt, I changed to my
sweatpants, and I laced up my running shoes and went out. I took the keys of
the house and put Death's album Spiritual Healing on repeat. The voice in my
head was right; I listen to really old music. It feels like I have not ran in years.
Questions started to come down in my mind like a waterfall.
'Sometimes the world doesn't make sense to me. I mean let us start with the
fact that we are all living on a floating dying rock and we are only alive thanks
to that fireball in the sky. Trillions of micro-organisms that we cannot see with
our naked eye live in and on our bodies. People are able to communicate with
each other thanks to language that they write, hear from others and say with
their mouths. We can understand each other thanks to our brain's ability to
decipher words, thanks to sound waves that we make with our mouths and
when opening that lower part of our faces that we use to consume food, water
and cigarettes.'
'There are by the way other various uses to the last part that you have mentioned.
But let us not makes this gross; the sun is only rising.'
'God apparently we suffer from dirty mind as well! Well, we speak English of
course because of a little group of violent people that were good at boats and
colonizing the weak, that love a little old lady that wears a piece of metal on
her head from time to time. We speak Arabic as well because of the Islamic
conquest that came from the Arabian Peninsula. However, even now at
XX
present times, it does not get better at all from climate change, nuclear arms,
mass surveillance, poverty, global pandemics to the awful ways we treat each
other. We not only come from a capitalistic society that I fear that it is
unsustainable but I'm also actively participating in playing the game, I have
my own goals and ambitions to climb this pathetic social ladder and live a
better life, whatever that means anyway.'
'Damn man! You are getting busy early in this morning. It is only 6 a.m. enjoy the
sun, relax and just have fun already. Can't you enjoy something for once?'
'Hmm, I am talking here, do you mind? Oh! I'm also glad you brought that
up, because we will circle back and come back to that.'
'I walked straight into that one, didn't I?'
'As I was saying, I was about to talk about money, you ruined my train of
thoughts dude. Anyways, I think most of us know that at some level that
money doesn't buy happiness, or does it? How many times have we heard that
one, right? Yet it still plays a major role in some if not all of our decisions. It
feels that my parent lived in a different world, and my grandparents lived in
an alternate universe. I see and feel that there is massive inconsistencies and
differences between these worlds that it is hard to know what to believe
anymore, and it is even harder to know which direction is the right one.
Whatever ''right'' means. I look around and I found us or technically me or
should I say the concepts that I have of me, which is nothing more than ideas I
built about who I am. I found out that I get upset or offended when someone
threatens my values or anything that I identify myself with. Which all of this
feels so juvenile, I mean people are going to say whatever the hell they want to
say anyway, and I am one of them. Yet my whole world is still built around
this silly concept. I am a slave driven by my biology and my programing to
seek food, shelter and sex. Everything seems so important yet in a hundred
years or even less if people find out who I am really I will be a pile of dust.
Sometimes I get hanged up with a simple question: what is the fucking point
anyway? I don't know any answers of these thousand questions I have.'
'I struggled all my life to find meaning to all of this, to my life and to the
choices I make but now since I am taking this journey of finding answers I
have to address the fundamental thing of my depressed nihilistic view. With all
XXI
honesty, you know I haven't enjoyed doing something in a very long time. I
find this feeling puzzling, some people call it emptiness some people like me
don’t even know what to call it. And yeah, it is a feeling this emptiness. But it
is not quite that. This feeling has been haunting me for a long time now. I
learned how to cope up with it and fake it. Nevertheless, I feel this is the time
to address it fully. All the activities I normally enjoyed are no longer
enjoyable. I have zero interest in going out with friends, or participate in
activities. I feel this unwillingness to do the things I love, not that I have found
any yet but still. I thought about it for a long time, and it has been two years
now. I really think I suffer from Anhedonia. This inability to experience
pleasure from the activities that were enjoyable once. I lost that passion of
perusing things. I lost that fire to enjoy.'
'I do get what you mean. Here we are trying to be a better version of ourselves and
be productive to contribute something of use and value, and it is only natural to
wonder if all of this is worth it. Maybe, we are no near to be daring and virtuous as
we would like to think, and we are a lot more self-interested than we would like to
admit. Philosophers have been thinking about these questions since the beginning
and a lot of them came with different answers. So, let's remind ourselves of what
we've came across in an attempt to piece all this shit together and where we are at
right now. Who knows maybe our views will change five years from now and maybe
they are going to change whether we like it or not.'
'Indeed, people find meaning in different ways whether in religion or community or
jobs and you know that, so I am not going to go into that direction but instead we
are going to focus on our favorite philosophers from Kierkegaard, Sartre and
Camus... However, before we talk about that, I would like to remember one great
book that was written by Greg McKeown that is called Essentialism: A Discipline
Pursuit of Less. I like what he talked about and if we took what he wrote about and
move it to our case, I can't help but to find myself seeing that the thinking behind
essentialism is that every entity has a set of attributes that are necessary to its
identity and function. According to this way of seeing the world we do have a
purpose, you choose that purpose. Maybe it has been decided for us or maybe not.
The concept that I find intriguing is Camus' concept of " The Absurdity of The
World" which is something we can find and see even for a brief moment when we're
pulled away of the contexts of everything and we see in a sense of just how weird
and absurd everything is. It is like we are searching for an answer in an answerless
world, meaning we will never find an definite answer. Which brings up to Sartre's
XXII
concept of "Being and Nothingness" where he stated that being precedes essence.
We exist then we try to figure this all out. I know this is different look of how we see
the world than essentialism.'
'This angst we feel, these ideas we have when thinking about this life and the
meaning of it should have something. Sartre had a theory about that too. He called
it ''anguish'', he believes that this comes from the fact that we are incredibly free.
No matter the situation we have, an enormous amount of free choices at our
disposal. This is indeed an overwhelming idea to grasp. All of this, kind of says
things about our choices. If we wasted the various options we have in life, we are
wasting and ignoring this freedom. About money to answer your thoughts about it,
we must be careful because money does not equal freedom, in a way it ties us down
or possesses us arguably more than anything else.'
'So you really think I can find some comfort and meaning in knowing all this?'
'Of course you can find meaning either by being religious or get caught up in work
or with the meaningless of this all. Hell, you can mix things up.'
'Damn I am so lost.'
'And so is everyone. In any moment, we can find ourselves lost and questioning
everything as French-Algerian Albert Camus said: "In any street corner, the
feeling of absurdity can strike any man in the face." That moment when our self
splits open. We find even the simplest and normal-seeing of things become strange
and confusing. A fork, a tree, the condition of the world, other people's behavior,
our own behaviors, our death and our jobs may all come to question of what they
are? And why they are? For some this moment becomes more than just that. It
becomes an inescapable perspective, a lens of how we see the world. Maybe in a
way we are destined to feel lost.'
'When thinking of this and consider this essence of human existence with honesty
and open-mind, we realize how little we know about this essence. This fact will be
met with the realization that the world and our life within it, is without any clear
definite ultimate meaning, purpose or answer. As these information spills under us
we individuals it reveals how apparently chaotic and messy this world is, or how
balanced and beautiful this world is. Those conclusions can lead to a bleak,
meaningless life or to a happy wonderful one, or both at the same time. Whatever
XXIII
lens you choose to look at it from. In the past and still nowadays, you can find
meaning in mythical or religious doctrines that are looked towards in order to
clear this confusion and resolve this issue. Notions of an omniscient God, divinity
and an afterlife can provide comfort, structure and purpose as it can provide none
of that. As well of the new conditions of the world from science biology, and
technology that seeks new different ways for understanding the universe can also
provide meaning, reconciliation and order as it can provide none. From any
option, we can be further confused and alienated from life or clear full of sense of
belonging for this life. Perhaps yes, we can find meaning in both religion and logic
as well as we can find none in any. Again maybe we are destined to feel lost.'
'You mentioned absurdity; can you walk me through it?'
'Well, Albert Camus and other existential philosophers believed that life is absurd.
meaning that life has no inherent meaning. By the look of this it might be a reason
for despair and loss, it may even lead people to end their own life. Nevertheless,
Camus believed that a meaningless universe is actually an opportunity to free
ourselves from the handcuffs and the shackles of hope so we can experience life
fully. Camus described all of this. He put it in this analogy in his book "the myth of
Sisyphus" where he stated: "If I see a man armed only with a sword attack a group
of men holding machine guns, I shall consider his act as absurd. But it is so solely
by virtue of the disproportion between his intention and the reality he will
encounter. Of the contradiction, I notice between his true strength and the aim he
has in view... From the simplest to the most complex, the magnitude of the
absurdity will be in direct ratio to the distance between the two terms of my
comparison... The absurd is essentially a divorce, it lies in neither the elements
compared; it is born of their confrontation." In other words, neither the human nor
the universe are necessary absurd on their own but the relationship between them
is utterly absurd. As humans, we exist with an innate desire for meaning, reason
and order. Yet simultaneously we exist in a universe that appears to lack all of
what I mentioned. Rather, so as far as we can tell, the universe is completely
indifferent. Thus, what we expect and want from the universe is fundamentally in
contradiction with what we get. In this conflict, the absurdity and despair of human
experience is based on this idea, we are in fact without any granted meaning or
find any sense in finding finality or consolation.'
'I know what are you thinking; that this view is fucking depressing, right? But not
quite. Despite this realization of our meaningless or at least our inability to find the
XXIV
true meaning. Camus rejects the nihilistic hopelessness that might sound like a
reasonable conclusion. Rather provokes the absurdity of life as a mean to find
worthy and potent experiences within it. For Camus, to become aware of and
accept the absurdity is to transcend it, rather than hopelessness, despair or worst
of all suicide. We should accept life as our own and overcome it. The Danish
philosopher Soren Kierkegaard also struggled with this and longed for a purpose
that he can live and die for.'
'Aren't we all bothered by that, Aren't we all?'
'In addition, he struggled with the fact that a great deal of existence cannot be
rationally explained and therefore we have to find something outside of ourselves
to hold on to, something that gives us meaning and guidance in the face of the
unknown. He found that religion is the answer to this and we should take a leap of
faith to explore this possibility and embrace it even though there is no solid proof
of its validity. Indeed such an embrace may solve our problems and end our agony,
but it comes with a price "Philosophical Suicide" is what Camus called this
solution of faith. In his profound book, "The Myth of Sisyphus" Albert references
the famous Greek mythology as a powerful allegory in teaching to overcome life
utter meaninglessness. In the story, because of trying to outsmart the gods, the
Greek king Sisyphus is condemned, as a punishment: to roll a giant rock up a hill.
As part of the punishment however every time Sisyphus gets to the top of the hill the
rock rolls back down to the bottom, forcing him to get it back again to the hill over
and over and over again. For absolutely no reason other than the process itself.
He rolls it to the hill to watch it roll back down. In this, Camus draws the
connection between the tiresome and futile fate of Sisyphus and the fate of human
experience. However, also in this comparison he writes: "one must imagine
Sisyphus happy." He poses the hopeful yet reasonable assertion that even in the
ordinary, repetitive of experience of our everyday life, we can and should still find
and search for worthy experiences and happiness. There are plenty of reasons why
one must endure this absurdity. One shouldn't turn his head on all the things that
exists around the rock from the sun, the trees, the refreshing breeze, the rain, the
friends , the relationships, the family , the art , the journey of self-exploration, the
traveling .... Unlike anything else in the known universe, we are able to consciously
observe, consider, reason and act in this life as a result of our exclusive abilities,
we always ask ourselves ...WHY? Our desperate non-stopping attempts to find
answers, actually benefit us, we get increasingly clever. Yet every answer just like
the rock in the myth of Sisyphus, at some point returns to the bottom of the hill. As
XXV
a result, we can often find ourselves judging over the seeming absurdity of it all...
We laugh. We can still be okay and live a happy life by being conscious and
appreciative of the things within this absurdity.'
Before I knew it, I was back near my place. Tired of running I went
upstairs drank a full bottle of water and wondered how my legs brought me
back to my place without me even noticing it. I decided to take a break from
these questions that I will not have an answer to and hop into the shower. I
took my clothes off, put ''Bloody Valentine'' by Machine Gun Kelly, and
turned on the cold shower. For the first time in a long time, I felt every drop of
cold water on my skin, I felt the waves of the music soothing my soul and
without realizing it; I was dancing. Trust me that a huge milestone because I
never dance. I was dancing and I was not talking to myself, it has been a while.
I felt free.
XXVII
Chapter IV: Dear
God.
'I think I think too much about God, and that it is not a bad thing I guess. I am
taking upon myself this journey to search for God. I have known many
changes with this concept and I am trying to grasp that idea. You see the
concept of God has taken many forms and religions. God has been given many
names. Some claim that god is simply a fiction, a myth, that we are simply on a
race governed by stories. The stories we tell ourselves are inescapable without
letting go of the ego, but fiction and storytelling is simply embedded in our
DNA. I thought as I am laying here in the grass, watching the clouds pass by. I
felt an urge to leave the house. I just could not stand one more moment in that
house. I thought I would go to my place but after all it is just another four
walls place with the same noisy mind; my mind. It seems no matter where I go
this noise haunts me. I decided to take a drive to the coast. I found a nice place
on east Algiers. The grass could not be any more greener here. I laid down, lit
a cigarette and enjoyed the perfect blue sky.'
'So what are we thinking about today?'
'Ooooh god.' Yelling in frustration.
'OH, you are thinking about God. What made these thoughts pop up?'
'I mean .... ahhh never mind. What do you mean what made thoughts like this
pop up. Who knows? I can't even control when you show up. I wish I did.
Perhaps this green grass and this beautiful sky made me think about the
magnificent of its creator. I am obsessed with the sky. I look up and I wonder
how satisfied God must feel after painting them.'
'The journey of finding God is very struggling. We are not that good in it anyways.
We have a very basic understanding of how the universe or the brain works.'
XXVIII
'I know.' The thought of Monica Geller of my favorite show FRIENDS came
to mind. As soon as I spoke the words her voice came to mind. Isn't it weird
how that happens? Indeed, I really don’t have clue how the mind works.
'I have no clue why I or any of us are here and what are we supposed to do.
Sometimes I feel like life is piling up on my chest and throat and it seems I
can't get the air that I need to breathe and other times, I'm simply fine, I'm
alright. I know the search of God and understanding God would make me feel
like the former instead of the latter. Because I realize as well that many people
look towards God to answer those entire impossible questions, and yet so
much that it is done for the name of God and so much it is using this threeletter word. It's still doesn't make sense to me. What about all of the insane,
the injustice, the poverty, the pandemics... that exist in this world? What about
the suffering that occurs in all of our lives? Why all things has to end? Those
questions are still ambiguous to me, and every time I think about them, it feels
like I keep trying to add one plus one and end up getting five or twenty-eight. I
also think about why I am doing all of this and whether I would have still
wanted to search for God if my life was perfect and everything I need is
already fulfilled. Would I still give a damn if there weren't bad moments in my
life? If I was raised with a different religion and in a different place and
environment. What if I was Indian, or Australian or Spanish would I still give
a damn?'
'I don't think anyone can really understand God.'
'Why is that?'
'I mean how can you explain the color blue to a blind person.'
'True. God is a mystery but when I think of God, I look how everything in our
world function as half to a whole. Through days and nights, winter and
summer, men and women I wonder if God splits itself into all the billion halves
our world knows just to refined itself again. God is everywhere. When I think
about halves I wonder if I will ever find someone to love. The other half.
Being here in nature makes me feel God. I mean look at this simply yet
wonderfully made grass. Just this single one. Subhanallah. I don't think this
grass question itself why is it here. It is just here. I mean I look around and see
these trees, these rocks. They don't think they think that they don't belong. I
XXIX
am a human being I am supposed to be. My existential crisis go away. Nature
makes me feel as an expression of creation. Deliberately wonderfully made.
Made with purpose.'
I realized that I have smoked two joints already. I decided to stop with all of
this and just go home. I put on The Dark Side of the Moon and drove back.
XXXI
Chapter V:
Present Anguish.
It took miles finally to pull away from the dragnet of the suburban houses,
industrial parks and warehouses and the melancholic scent of the city. Now, at
last, an open road 120 miles more of it. They will be asleep when I finally pull
up and search in the darkness for that key under the old mat. I have never
been a fan of cars but I am trying to treasure moments like this. It takes only a
miniscule pressure for the machine to move forward. The hidden world
of technicians that made this possible: the cylinders fashioned somewhere in
industrial Japan, the oil in the tank from Arabian deserts. Every mile in this
road took days to build. The base layer, the limestone, the perfect white and
yellow lines and the men who made this all work... Alongside in other lanes
trucks carrying parts of the nation's need: lampshades, biscuits, soda, things
that will be part of someone's bedroom, accompaniments to a meal. It feels
that my neglected inner life parts emerge when I am on the road; it is certainly
emerging in this old bus heading back to Belgrade. Ideas, associations,
feelings. To me it feels like riding is an unexpected tool to overthink, question
and reflect. Out here, it becomes less frightening to look inside of me. One can
always draw away to the stars in the vast horizons. With my phone, I put on
Bon Iver; extraordinary sounds and songs: symphonies, instrumentals and
love songs choreographed to the beauty to what I am seeing. Shortly, we
stopped in the service station for a break. I got a black coffee, sat down and lit
my cigarette. I have been trying to use some sort of method to lessen my
cigarettes consuming and reduce the number of cigarettes smoked per day. In
other words to be able to choose when to smoke for pleasure rather by being
driven by nicotine addiction. Bertrand Russel came to mind when I recalled
his interview where he talked about smoking and how paradoxically it saved
his life.
I looked around and saw nameless faces. Everyone is a stranger here. I can
guess at the sorrows that brought them to this place. Perhaps a father who sees
his children only once a month or a disappointed fellow who has been waiting
XXXII
for his date for hours. The sense of sadness in this place is not necessarily
depressing. Everybody is a little dislocated, the little sadness I carry inside me
meets with the sadness of the others, it is redeemed. Finished coffee and back
to the bus, still maybe two hours to go. It is 1 a.m. and sleep has not found me
yet, and immediately my mind started thinking about my some sort of
Insomnia. I have been escaping my thoughts about my lack of sleep for a
while, I am even trying to escape them right now but it seems that the hardest
I try the harder I fail.
'It is about time, what a person should do to get some sleep around here!'
OH here we go. 'I told you hundreds of times your sarcasm and teasing is not
very helpful.'
'Oh get a grip, and let us talk about your insomnia.'
'Well just like every single night it is far into the night but sleep won't come, I
turn over perhaps a different position will quieten my mind from all of this
bloody noise inside, most of it comes from you anyway.'
'Eiii I am only here to help remember that.'
'Or maybe the other side was better after all. Not sleeping feels like an
avalanche that I am constantly going under. Not being able to sleep is
frightening; the thought of it only makes me deeply anxious. I panic about my
ability to cope with the demands of the next day then I start to panic about my
panicking and then the possibility of sleep recedes even further as my clock
clocks down to another bloody dawn. You know I tried pills that is powerful
enough to wrestle with my mind and put it into rest, it worked for a while but
because I'm super moody and the thought of me getting controlled by a
medicine is so irritating I stopped taking it. I don't want to go back to it, that's
why you are here, to help me, or to bore me to sleep.'
'Ha-ha very amusing. Well, I am here for us. We all long for some sleep around
here trust me.'
'I want to suggest that perhaps a better method is to try to understand what type of
insomnia do we have, where it springs from, and what it might in its own selfish
XXXIII
way trying to tell us. Maybe this insomnia is a reminder of something important
that we have forgotten to do. Most of us have indeed a great deal in our minds
during the daylight hours but perhaps these tend to be practical procedurals and
immediate matters, the larger and the deeper question about our direction, purpose
and meaning. Perhaps it is there for a reason; it's doing work for us maybe we
should learn to let it take its course.'
'So what you are suggesting is that perhaps my insomnia is in a way something
positive, really? Can you elaborate more on that?'
'I am suggesting that perhaps the reason of our insomnia is the crucial things that
we need to think about are seeking their chance to bubble into our consciousness. It
feels to me it is some sort of vendetta for all the many ideas and desires we pushed
away, or could not manifest in the day. We should put in mind that that matter
intensely to our self-understanding and development. We have been putting things
off for far too long; we have been running on empty fuel. Maybe a healthy way to
deal with all of this is instead of freaking out and slap yourself to sleep like we
usually do, we can instead return to a bigger duty: to ourselves. At night what we
think about will surely sound weird and off to so many people - my family, my
friends, my loved ones... These people needs us to be in a certain way,
unfortunately their expectations choke off crucial aspects of who we really are. At
night when it is just the vast universe and us we can try to take a little bit of it
boundlessness and mystery. With a pad of papers and pen, and a little bed sight
light on, we can dare to investigate the big questions that we normally push away
that manifest themselves as background anxieties and worries.'
'Some people think of philosophy as a remote specialized discipline of relevance to
only a few academically minded sorts, but what philosophy really wants from
us and like Socrates suggested is that leading an examined self-aware life is in
truth a necessity for everyone. This should be as vital as drinking water or
exercising, so much so if we don't do regularly enough philosophy. If we don't make
time to interrogate ourselves, question our beliefs or explore our hidden self we
will pay a dreadful price in some sort of a way i.e. in this case your insomnia that
stripped us of the capacity to carry our day with enough rest in our bones. So
important that we tackle those questions, and that we stop deriving all the many
obvious benefits of sleep rather than leave a raft of our existential issues untreated.
That what our inner-guardian or conscious wants us to do. This philosophizing
leads to some sort of solution to our insomnia, not so much a pill, some special
XXXIV
weird-tasting tea or a long bath but principally more time in the reasonable hours
of the day for thinking, more time in which there are no demands on us and we can
at last meditate. Meditating and asking relevant questions systematically examine
everything we are concerned about. Am I truly happy? How am I feeling? Who am
I? Why? How? Also shifting through regrets, discussing our work and habits with
our inner-critic a.k.a me. All of this will air the tensions with our true self. In short
reacquainting ourselves with ourselves.'
'I think I got what you mean, from what I understand is that insomnia is
seldom a physical disease. It is indeed sometimes maddening but ultimately
eye opening released by our core self. That is one of the reasons I started
meditating some time ago, it helped me untangle my knotted feelings, emotions
and ideas. From exciting plans to the things that have to change. Nights like
this offers me safety from the skepticism of sensible others, it allows me time to
get myself together. Nights like this offer me a cover to grow into my more
complete self. Perhaps indeed I shouldn't be in such a rush to escape it.'

XXXV
The bus suddenly stopped and I regained awareness of the things around me,
passengers are coming down. I glanced through the window and saw a sign
"Belgrade 62 miles to go". The bus started moving again I put City Of The Sun
playlist on my phone, I'm feeling a little cold so I fixed my hat, wore my hoodie
and closed my eyes.
I immediately started thinking about one of the biggest issues I have, yet
again. I have always tried to address it but never been able to figure it out
completely. My mind took me to one of the greatest ideas in psychology, the
triangle that is divided into five sections universally referred to as Maslow's
pyramid of needs, the works of the Russian-origin psychologist Abraham
Maslow. In his spiritual domain. 'The issue with belongingness always
troubled me. Here I am finally more than 2000 km away from Algiers like I
always wanted. Algeria that place that is supposed to be my home but never
felt like it. Away from it is where I wanted to be as soon as I got back to it
earlier this year. I worked all summer to save up money so I can travel and
apply for a visa early, I have been longing for being somewhere else but now I
am finally out of there I still feel something is missing, as if nothing is fixed. I
felt like this in my previous trips away from Algeria but decided to ignore it,
but now it is very overwhelming not to look into it.'
I thought of the words of one of my favorite writers Kurt Vonnegut. Where he
addressed this problem and advised that the reason why we feel so lonely and
not belonging is that we don't have enough friends and relatives, that we need
to join organizations or social groups simply to get more people into our lives,
quantities he believed matters. In some way, this can be true, this can solve
some part of this big issue but for me so far it solved nothing.' I know what
you are thinking that I know how to deal with this dreadful feeling, I can
meditate on it, be okay with these thoughts and be okay with where I am. I can
let this thought be here, I will not try to get rid of it and I will not be okay with
it just so I can get rid of it, I can let it be here. So what I am asking is not how
to deal with it, I just need you to help me figure this shit out.'
'I somehow always thought that this question is related to my somehow lack of
ability to attribute any significance to sensations and emotions. I always felt I
couldn't answer this belongingness issue because of my some sort of
Anhedonia, I never felt belonging anywhere maybe because I have been
XXXVI
experiencing it as I always experienced it as a thing. Because I always found
difficulties distinguishing the different qualities of things.'
'I do understand what you are struggling with; this is quite normal, mostly
everybody struggles with this question. We constantly seek a place where we
belong, a place where we love and feel loved. I feel I must remind you about some
things that you probably failed to consider when addressing this question and I feel
that answering other questions will lead us to an answer for this one. Karl Max
talked about the four different types of Alienations meaning being stranger to
something. We feel alienated from nature, other people, and our work and of
course, ourselves. We are lucky enough that we have been trying to deal with these
topics for a while now. I am not going to bore you and deal with all of this one by
one. But I feel compelled to talk about self-actualizing and the benefits of feeling
not belonging.'
'"Musicians must make music, artists must paint... If they are to be ultimately at
peace with themselves. What human beings can be, they must be. They must be true
to their own nature. This need to become self-actualized it refers to our desire for
self-fulfillment namely to the tendency for us to become in what we are potentially."
This a quote from Abraham Maslow you know it already. In our vast terrain psyche
we search for answers and we are motivated in some way to gain a greater
knowledge in and out. Everybody at some point choose an ambitious and some sort
meaningful goal, so we devote our energies and spend some time like what you are
doing right now traveling and volunteering as a teacher developing the necessary
skills for that goal. In the process, we actualize our latent potential as our life
becomes increasingly structured around the need to self-actualize; Abraham
Maslow suggested that we become more susceptible and receptive to peak
experiences. From his book ''Motivation and Personality'' he noticed that selfactualizing people tend to have a wonderful capacity to appreciate again and
again, freshly and naively, the basic goods of life with awe, pleasure, gratitude,
wonder and even ecstasy no matter how stale these experiences may have become
to others. Experiences needs to be lived fully and to be appreciated because it have
a deep therapeutic effect and can transform our image of our world. Selfactualizers have the tendency to be free from the constricting need for social
acceptance; free from issues like this where it comes of the perfect country or the
perfect place to live in. Also, free from the obsession of social comparison. I hope
you realize where I am going with this. I think before anything else, you must
XXXVII
appreciate this experience you are going through and be grateful for opportunities
like this.'
'I do get what you mean and I am starting to get an idea of where you are
heading but I do have the need to question if all of us in principle selfactualize, why do only few of us end up doing so? Why in other words most of
us become more complacent, bitter and anxious as we age rather than more
joyous, creative and productive?'
'You do ask tough questions but what Maslow's suggested that there exist two
regressive forces in our psyche which inhibit personal growth, he wrote that the
dark forces within us is as normal as the growth forces. We all desire to be better
at some point but we are often far more attracted to the easy and the comforting
road. The pull of these regressive forces places us in a dangerous territory. If we
allow it anxiety, guilt, feelings of not belonging... will manifest. Nevertheless,
remember that the presence of these symptoms does not mean that all is lost.
Instead, we can view these symptoms not as a sign that we are ill or we need
medication but rather as a cry from the growth forces within us wanting us to
explore those questions and remember our goals and dreams as Maslow
suggested.'
I glanced on my phone; its 02:04 a.m. sleepiness is finally shaping up, after all
it has been more than 46 hours since I last slept, this is promising maybe I will
sleep when I arrive. I changed the music and put Apocolyptica. I put my hands
inside my hoodie pockets and rested my head against the glass and I
continued.
'This does indeed makes sense to me, but I still can't see any other benefits
from my situation. I don't want to be pushy because I know we spent a lot of
time and effort to change our view from a complete nihilistic view to some sort
of an optimistic one.'
'I do believe that not belonging in itself has its benefits, from what I can think of
freedom is surely a big benefit. Group can restrict indeed the way we think and
speak even our physical movement can be part of that restriction. I mean think
about it for a second groups can prohibit us from entering certain places, buildings
and even countries, and we know best about that I mean look at your Algerian
Passport we need visa for almost every country on this planet and let's not even
XXXVIII
begin to discuss the hardships and the low success rate of getting one. Groups can
be compulsive, they can eliminate certain things from our diet simply because of
the group's ideology whether or not it supported by logic and reason. "Every
ideology is contrary to human psychology" said Albert Camus, so not belonging in
some way present us freedom from the different groups whether religious, political,
social or anti-souls. It is 2076 and people still discriminate and judge on your
religion, your skin color, how much money you have and let us not get started on
the Souls issue. It presents us an escape from the effort it takes to belong to these
groups: how they dress, how they talk, what they eat, what they worship you name
it. What to gain from this? What is the reward? That you belong, that you will be
surrounded by nameless faces that conform to each other based on certain
characteristics and ideologies. No, fuck that. I really believe that not belonging
give us the chance to be who we are truly and just be ourselves from dressing the
way we want, to associating with whoever we like, to doing whatever we enjoy you
name it.'
'Not belonging can present us also something perhaps more important which is
universal love. From one of your favorite philosophies Buddhism, there exist a
practice which is called Metta. Metta means loving-kindness. This Metta is not
selective but rather it is universal, which includes all beings, insects, animals,
humans, Souls literally every living being. What we often see in groups is rather
different. Killing in the name of religion or an ideology, stealing in the name of
capitalism, republicans, democrats… Since the war ended, we are not allowed even
to build robots to help in home chores. It is 2076 and we still find almost every
group is in competition against the other; emergence of different groups is almost
in everything which most of the times unfortunately lead to the love of only the
members within the groups, and the hate and the hostility to the people that do not
belong to that group. This division is a pure form of conditional love. This freedom
we get from all this mess helps us distribute love to almost everyone no matter
which group they belong to or like the Buddhists teach: to all sentient beings.'
'I am getting a sense of all of this, but do you think a person can be identified
by both? In other words, can we use the social hierarchy to our advantage
while maintaining our independence?'
'Indeed, it is not easy to escape social ideologies because let us be honest it takes
tremendous effort to do so. It takes energy to conform to what society or the group
perceives as the norm. To quote Camus again:" Nobody realizes that some people
XXXIX
expend tremendous energy merely to be normal." It is true that we can't be utterly
free we need society, we need a country and the benefits that comes from that and it
is also part of our identity, we can never escape that. However, aside from
respecting and not hurting anyone and comforting to some local customs in public
places no matter how strange they are, we have great freedom in choosing who we
are and what are our values, and not belonging in some way made it possible.'
'What I want to say to you is instead of making our default pursuit is to belong
somewhere, we can put this energy into self-development, and become true to
ourselves.'
I got aware to my surroundings again and I realized that I am almost there.
The bus stopped and we got out one by one; I lit my cigarette and decided to
walk back to the hostel instead of getting on the bus. As I am walking I passed
the Republic Square I noticed the beautiful architecture. The energy in this
street is compelling from the lights to the coffee shops for the first time since I
arrived it felt right. I somehow thought if I ever felt like this back home in
Algeria then a quick genuine smile came when I realized that I did indeed. I
realized that I am excited to get back home. I entered the hostel and I realized
it was 03:25 a.m. I found my Tunisian friends asleep but my Indian friend was
still up, I smiled and greeted him. I wondered if he is a Soul like me how great
would that be. I changed my cloths and I noticed that I am indeed feeling
sleepy; I felt enormous joy that I couldn't stop smiling. I missed this feeling. I
hoped for a better tomorrow and a better world. I laid down and closed my
eyes and before I know it, I was sleeping at last.
XLI
Chapter VI: A
Nostalgic Soul
Longing for some
Fulfilling Work.
I just turned 21 few weeks ago. Yet another year went flying by and I am
wondering where did time go, I do not celebrate birthdays in fact I cannot
remember a time when I celebrated my birthday. It is not that I am a
pessimistic soul who can't enjoy a party or something, I just never got excited
for my birthday. I have spent a large part of my short adulthood wishing I was
a kid again; I wanted to be 12 again because life was indeed better then. When
I look back, I remember summer feeling warm not just outside but inside as
well, I felt warmth. It seems no matter how much I try to ignore or face this
dread I get sucked back to this endless rabbit hole. When I was young, love felt
like something to fall helplessly in and everyday demanded a new adventure. I
had all the time in the world and that time is what I miss most not because I
have aged, but because in aging I feel time is constantly slipping out of my
hands. You don't do what you want in most cases you do what you have to,
your schedule, your freedom, your happiness is all put off until weekends and
you make more friends out of convenience than real connection. Oh the word
real! Real becomes something foreign: real intentions, real friends, real work,
real love. I have many nostalgic episodes not because I am not living the
moment believe me I am trying to do exactly that. I dwell on the past because
it is when I can remember life feeling authentic. Now I see people all around
me racing to settle down and to start work life, I just sit and wonder if any of
them is happy, or if they are comfortable.
'This time I am not talking to you in hope you give me an advice, this time I
am talking to you to remind us of who we are and who we want to become.
XLII
You see what I want out of life is a lot more than comfort. I want ideal, I want
to live fully. I want to feel alive every single day. I hate the idea that becoming
an adult means sacrificing your youth after all, we live in a world that is part
of a universe that's existed for millenniums and millenniums; whether we are
12 or 72 in comparison we are baby YOUNG. I don't want to live a life where
youth is only limited to children, I don't want to live without that wonder, that
pursuit of happiness, that drive to explore whatever finds your interest. At
that time I felt wholeheartedly and thoroughly happy, where kindness was a
standard now most of us are kind to people who are kind to us, we are thriving
off our selfishness. I fear that the death of us, the loss of our humanity is the
loss of our child-like optimism, our upfront kindness and curiosity. We are
growing older and the only thing I want is to feel younger. I want us to
remember to feel younger, act younger, think younger. I want to enjoy my
youth until I die that's the only wish I want to turning 21.'
I felt warmth as I put my old photograph album of when I was young. I went
to the kitchen table and poured myself a cup of coffee; I put The Paper Kites
playlist and I sat down. It been weeks now since I got back from my 50 days
travel in Serbia, I am feeling nostalgic about it and when I look back it was
indeed an exhilarating experience that shed a light to different aspects of me
that I never thought I have. It is funny how travel can answer so many
questions about your life so easily. Those questions that you will take you
years to figure them out. Whenever I travel I find answers to my life inside
and out. I also missed college and my family so it is nice to be back. Since I got
back there is something I have been trying to do for a while which is getting
back to the mind of a child, perceiving and appreciating the world in the way
that a child does. It is like kids wake up everyday day with the sole purpose of
figuring out "what I can do today to have a good experience?" It is like they
are living by the quote of Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe when he said that
nothing is more important than this day. As I have been around children in
the kindergarten that I am working in as a part-time job, recently they have
really demonstrated an image of that. Since then I have been trying to
relinquish my adult mind that sees that as annoying or too playful or childish
but instead really try to appreciate it for the purity that it has, and the peace.
As Gibran Khalil Gibran puts it, "true maturity is finding what you lost in
XLIII
trying to grow up." It is the balance between the curious child and disciplined
adult.
'If you got this figured out then why I am here?'
'It is not like I have control when you show up, if only I had, I certainly wish.
Plus, you already know why because I am about to freak out on things and get
anxious. You know the drill.'
'Yeah, I figured that out but for what reason now?'
'The nostalgia I am having has made it so difficult to live in the present
moment but the worst part it has almost compelled me to start thinking about
my future and the work and passion I have not yet found. Every time I think
about this, I feel overwhelmed and I start to overthink. For starters, can you
talk to me a little about nostalgia and why it happens a lot to me?'
'Well, I am no psychologist nor a researcher after all I am you; I am smarter than
you that's for sure. So, I am going to tell you what you already know and remind
you about things that you failed to remember.'
'We can remember instantly the sight of the landscapes of the environment we grow
up in. The taste of our favorite home cooked meal, the emotions of old emo songs
that we listened to on repeat in our entire middle school years, and of course the
trips and places we have gone to that were triggered earlier by the photo album.
All of these things brings out a feeling so unique and powerful that it appears to
transcend time and space. We go right back to that time and place, it is like we can
see, hear, taste, smell, touch and feel all those things, like it is happening all over
again. It brings us to a state of being that cannot be described with anything other
than just this one word Nostalgia. This feeling is the closest thing we have to time
travel, it gives us an opportunity to experience moments of our life exactly as it
was; free from any fear, worry or uncertainty. This is because the circumstances
that we were worried about at that time have already passed. At that time our
worries and fears lied in the uncertainty of what the next several days, weeks would
bring but here we are doing fine.'
'Ironically, letting the state of nostalgia carry us into the past can remind us of the
importance of appreciating the present moment. It brings to light that our desire to
XLIV
perfect all the moments of life is foolish and unnecessary and our fears and worries
about the future may sometimes be irrational. It provides clarity that even the
moments that may have been stressful and that seemed terrible at that time can still
carry a sense of great value and appreciation when viewed through the lens of
hindsight. We most likely still have a feeling of nostalgia attached to those hard
times when we are reminded of them in the future. So if this is true. Why not try to
appreciate this right now as well?'
'Thanks for shedding light into this. As you must have felt right now I still
have terrible fear of the future because of the work I would like to do, the
problem is I haven't found what I want yet, perhaps I will never will. As you
know we have been experimenting in everything that strikes our interest, we
have read various books about how to find THE WORK for us but I am still
so lost. Sure, I enjoy teaching and I have genuine fun whenever I am in the
classroom but I just can't shake the feeling that this is not for me, I cannot see
myself having the sole career of teaching you know what I mean? And you
know what is even frustrating is the fact that I know you can't help me,
whatever you say I know it will not give me a straight answer to find my
passionate work. You are me after all, and I know we haven't figured that
questions yet.'
'What are you most afraid of when it comes to work?'
I am afraid I will never find my mission, the meaningful work; I am scared
that I will end up to be the eight-to-five kind of worker. I don't want to live to
work you know what I mean?
'I understand. I know the disappointment and the sense of purposelessness you are
feeling. Almost all of us when we were young and in the process of growing up, we
used to imagine our adult life preoccupied by our endless adventures in space or in
the Amazonian jungles, or hours and hours of eating our favorite foods while we
get paid. Then through our gradual confrontation with our limitlessness as
individuals, we begin to jump shorter and shorter to the attempts to reach our
childhood aspirations. I know you cannot handle the thought that maybe one day
you would suddenly find yourself on that car or bus at 7 a.m. travelling through
dark tunnels to meet other melancholic co-workers like yourself. And I know you
are terrified of the idea that if this happens your life may turn up to meds, fatigue,
drugs or a simple adaptation that will makes you numb. You are petrified you will
XLV
be like those people who live like this and still think a vacation will make things
better; yeah that will brighten things up. Then it fails to do that and you just start to
sink into that walking coma that composes of anhedonia, depression and no
enjoyment whatsoever.'
'Oh God! Jeez thanks for reminding me of all of this.'
'Do not freak out on me just yet. As I was saying, in everyday bases work can take
70% or more of our time in the day and I understand that you want that time to be
spent in a meaningful, exciting way. KNOW THAT YOU CAN.'
'But quick question what about writing? I know you enjoy journaling, writing
fiction even erotica so what about that?'
'Well, I do enjoy it sometimes but It still feels to me that it is just a fun habit
you know? Like most of the times I don't feel like writing at all. Like the
different stories I start for example it feels something I have to finish just
because of my habits and my compulsive need of closure.'
'I get what you mean. What I was saying before is this fear you are having is
completely normal. Nowadays, the average individuals may find themselves
awakened by these feelings of purposelessness, anhedonia and more whether about
work or life in general. But as we talked before, this may not necessarily be a bad
thing. I want to remind you of one individual who rose from the depths of
hopelessness, meaninglessness and from the cruelty of the concentration camps
who survived both Dachau and Auschwitz. More than 100 years ago, Viktor Frankl
spent his years studying the very notion of meaning he may offer an answer. He
suggested that an individual find meaning in three ways: the creative, the
experiential and the attitudinal.'
'The creative may be the most obvious facilitator for meaning that deals with
achievements and accomplishments. It is somehow what we give to the world.
People can find meaning in that in which that give something to the world. Perhaps
one can find meaning as a painter capturing the complexity and the weirdness of
the human nature on canvas, maybe one can find meaning in creating dishes that
he or she finds pleasure in cooking as in eating, maybe in writing, in travelling, in
taking pictures... The experiential in the other hand asks us what would we like to
take from the world, this second way writes Frankl is by experiencing something
XLVI
such as goodness, truth, beauty by experiencing nature and culture or last but not
least by experiencing the uniqueness of another human being, by truly loving that
person. It can involve any ordinary or extraordinary things from walking on a
beautiful park, flying a jet or simply by a silent meditation of gratitude. Finally, the
attitudinal is the attitude we take towards the unavoidable inevitable suffering.
Frankl believed that when we are no longer able to change a situation we are
challenged to change ourselves and the things around us. Suffering can be a vessel
for reflection and self-transformation YOU HAVE TO REMEMEBER THAT.'
'I want you to remember that being confused about career choice is natural and
fear is perfectly normal, there are too many options out there and what
psychologists call ''the paradox of option'' is a real thing. Most of us gets anxious
and end up chasing the wrong job or worst not choosing at all which makes other
people choose for you. However, you know I am very glad and happy to see you
taking a journey to do the oldest philosophical recommendation to know thy self.
This has a particular relevance that will surely help you choose the right career for
yourself. It will make you decide on a plan for yourself and the people you love thus
allowing you to achieve what you want. Our minds are so wondrous and we need to
know the little hints of our tastes, we need to pick up their faint sounds. So in a way
you will know what you will enjoy in a job and what you will not. You need to think
a lot about these things because this will take a lot of time. Just choosing the
perfect car can take weeks and weeks so do not be surprised if it takes you a whole
year or two to figure it out. I want you to remember that you need to be properly
generous about the amount of time you will need to give this, because trust me, you
do not want to spend the rest of your life trapped in a job unwittingly chosen for us
too quickly or by our unknowing 17 years old selves. This will lead you to
something that I am also proud of you to have which is the love of trying new
things, reading and experimenting. All of this can also lead a person to step out of
his comfort zone. We need data no only reflection and when colliding with the real
world with its ups and downs we can have that. We can understand the situation.
This can lead to great opportunities it can lead a person volunteering, interning or
shadowing and we both know what new aspects and horizons that could bring to a
person. My last advice on this matter is to keep trying to find this exciting, full of
meaning future and remember when you do to be grateful and give back.'
XLVII
By that final note, I took my headphones off I prepared for sleep and I laid
down, my mind immediately jumped to the joy of traveling and how it makes
me so happy yet a lot of things can make me happy. I decided to give it some
time, to not rush into it and reflect on it until it comes naturally to me. I am
trying to make the changes I need to make. I am finally seeing this side of me
this inner personality that keeps me company is the one who I in someway
always needed. In every mirror I walked by this was everything I dismissed
and looked for in everything else. I am hopeful because I know for a fact that I
will never find what I am looking for until I see all of this in myself and I am
finally starting to see.
XLIX
Chapter VII:
Thinking about
Free Will.
My alarm beside me is ringing it is 7 a.m. I opened my eyes, got up, stretched
my back and my arms, walked to the bathroom and washed my face. After
that, I sat on the cushion and did a short meditation. It really calms me down,
it makes me more focused on the things I need to do. I walked to the kitchen,
switched on my radio I put my usual morning station Radio El Behdja and I
poured myself a cup of coffee in my favorite red mug where the words of Joey
from friends written all over it ''HOW YOU DOIN''. I immediately started to
think that every morning for the past two years and a half I have been doing
the same routine without even realizing it. It is like every morning I am on
autopilot. I do realize that this is part of the human brain process and this is
just the works of a habit, but this realization made me feel like I don't have a
choice anymore when it comes to the things I do in the morning.
'Boy! You started early today.'
'I know but this is hitting me really hard, damn. I have been thinking about
this for a while now and to be honest this constant realization about it is not
allowing me to think straight. This is terrifying for me because if I cannot
think clearly I can't do the things I want to do, I can't be present in my
experiences and throughout the day. Do you think that what I am experiencing
is the infamous brain fog? I know it is a very complex multi-layered topic that
almost certainly touches biology, diet, emotional well-being, psychology...So I
can't just blame it on those thoughts I am having. I am feeling to be honest
that I am consuming too much input and being pinned down trying to process
all of it, you know?'
L
'Yeah I know what you mean, I think taking a rest is vital and judging by your
short hours of sleep your brain is in vital need for rest. But I am glad that you are
taking sleep in a serious matter and I am happy to see you lately trying to fix your
sleeping habits.'
'You are right. After reading an old book ''Why Do We Sleep'' by Mathew
Walker and hearing what you said I really started to try to change my bad
sleeping habits. But back to the issue in hand here like I said I have been
having a lot of thoughts popping up about this morning routine actions and
questions like are we really in charge of our brains? Or do we even have free
will? All those hard questions it driving me crazy. Since I read about
Determinism and started really to think about the illusions of free will those
thoughts have been overwhelming. Do we have free will or not? Or everything
is just a pure chance? Or what?'
'Philosophers have been struggling to find an answer to questions like this all their
lives, and various theories have been discussed. So you cannot be serious and
expect me to provide an answer about those questions, once again all I am going to
do is try to mock you like always, give you my understanding about those things
and remind you of stuff you might overlooked.'
So are we free? I mean, on one hand, most of us have the clear sense that we
are. I certainly feel free, I feel like I make all sort of decisions that lead to both
beliefs and actions that are of my own choosing. I mean I am drinking coffee
without sugar because I am feeling like it, I could have put sugar but I choose
not to.'
'Yeah interesting. I know where you are going with this. Well a lot of us indeed
figure that our thoughts and actions are free. This view that humans are capable of
doing free actions is known as Libertarian free will the belief that most human
actions are freely chosen. But the weird thing is that most of us also believe that
every effect has a cause, and that everything that happens now in the present is the
necessary result of events that occurred in the past. I mean for example trees when
winter approaches they start to lose leaves until one day the last one falls. I mean
the falling didn't happen spontaneously, there are all sort of causes like the wind,
gravity, humans... In other words, those causes necessitated the leaf falling so
because they had happened the leaf had to fall, so until the conditions were right
the leaf couldn't fall and at that moment when the conditions were right the leaf in
LI
some way had to fall not before. In other ways, we can predict when something like
this can take place, even the decisions we think we make can actually be very easily
influenced by certain things which will make us think in a certain way. Noble prize
winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman talks greatly and beautifully about this in
his timeless book "Thinking Fast and Slow". Presumably also the same is true for
the motion of the planets, the weather, the tides… you can see where I am going
with this. This view is known as Determinism.'
'Sure! but you know deep down quantum levels and other things, things do
happen randomly.
I mean even me as a Soul, humans before the war were in total control of us
but then we developed an advanced A.I and consciousness so that’s count for
something. I mean we choose to fight even though almost all Souls are
destroyed now, but we choose to fight. However, it makes me wonder is that
really what would I call free? If all my actions were chosen by me or
spontaneous, random and uncaused is that what I would describe as free
will?'
'Also you have to admit that there are more to us than just what is physical,
we do have a mind, which isn't subject to the same causal laws as everything
else. I know I moved to dualism view, which was put by Descartes, but allow
me to circle back. We know that Immanuel Kant was the one who originally
pointed out that freedom is necessary for morality, he said that causality is a
built-in way that we have to view the world but the world itself might be like
that, so this notion might be enough that can allow for the possibility of
freedom. Kant also said that the arguments for both free will and determinism
boil down to the fact that imagining the opposite will make us feel too weird.
On one hand, If we try to imagine that our actions are predetermined then we
will be stumped by the question of what we are supposed to do now other than
give up and lie down. (and even laying down would not be counted as a free
choice.) On the other hand, if we try to imagine an undetermined free act, we
have to ask how would that differ from a random act?'
'And what about this point, can I choose both views that many of my actions
are free, and that the world is governed by cause and effect? but when I think
about it we know that the action is only free if I for example the person doing
LII
the thing could have done otherwise so, free actions require options but
determinism by contrast doesn't allow options.'
'Well, let's look at both views. First, Libertarianism free will in one hand says that
the decision you made by choosing to have coffee in the morning instead of Coco
pops cereal or oatmeal or whatever wasn't necessarily caused by anything that
happened before, instead it happened by your own thoughts and thinking. You are
drinking coffee because you decided to have coffee and that's it. They support this
view by introducing agent causation that humans can start a whole chain of
causality that was not caused by anything else. Even though they accept that event
causation, i.e. no physical event can occur without having been caused by a
previous event, so they accept that the physical world is deterministic. Like a
football flying through the air because someone kicked it, so the person who kicked
the ball kicked it because he decided to kick it but many philosophers asked
questions like where would these free decisions that launched new chains of cause
came from anyway? And by answering this question we just reinforced the position
that actions are caused rather than free.'
'In addition, famous psychologist B. F. Skinner with the emergence of ''radical
behaviorism'' declared that all human behavior is the result of conditioning.
Everything we do comes down to our responses to the rewards and punishment that
we have been raised upon.'
'God it is indeed hard to find arguments to support libertarian free will as a
whole, but it feels so awful if we are indeed not free. I mean, this feeling counts
I suppose if we feel so free we should consider the possibility that we are. But it
is still a subjective feeling. I mean determinism suggests that our actions are
caused in the same way that goals are caused by players kicking the ball. It
feels we are bound by the physical laws of the world, we are just part of the
physical world. Now I am thinking about it, I am seeing that indeed mental
states which makes our decisions are brain states and brain states are
biological states and biological states are physical states, holy shit and the
physical world as we know is deterministic. Are we not free? God. It can't be.'
'But choices man, I have been telling myself that I am the one who is in control
and who is making them. This notion somehow spared me the consideration of
looking deep into myself. Now, I am considering and thinking about the
LIII
choices I have made so far. I am sensing like I am against a truth I cannot
comprehend, it feels that no choice I have ever made was my own.'
'I know right, thoughts like this are terrifying, it is hard to disregard the feeling of
freedom, like if you did not choose to have coffee in this morning why do we feel
like we did choose? Like our actions are governed by invisible causes that happen
in our brain? But it is true we only have to change one thing from belief, desire or
temperament and we will have a different result.'
'God but is there a way out of this, I mean what if I flipped a coin or made
someone choose for me? This would not make my actions determined by my
beliefs, temperaments and desires. But even if we thought we chose randomly,
my decision to flip the coin or who I asked to pick for me was determined as
everything else.'
'Yup! I am sensing a little frustration from you about all of this. Well this
frustration is determined as well ha-ha. Determinists believe that you can't help
but feel and react the way you are reacting right now, in some ways we choose to
react and act in a ways that conform to the character that we have selected and
shaped for ourselves, and even that choice is the result of all sorts of alreadydetermined factors about us as individuals. I am not picking sides here but one
have to admit that determinism is hard to refute.'
'Alright! Alright! I finished my coffee I am going to watch the videos my
teacher sent me. I just want to do my homework.' I grabbed my computer,
went online into YouTube and started to watch the lecture about World War
II.
'Have you ever thought that the video you are watching now had to exist for you to
click on it.'
'Now what do you mean by that?'
'I mean you only clicked because someone made it.'
'So?'
LIV
'But of course the video that someone made needed to be shared on a public
platform for you to see it and click on it. And for you to see this video is thanks to
your parents who created your mind so it thanks to your parents and the
technology they had. In addition, in this case we can thank YouTube that shared the
video on this platform. So I guess it is also because of YouTube that you clicked on
this video. Nevertheless, YouTube only exists because of some three dudes named
Chad, Steve and Jawed made YouTube back in 2005. So I guess it is because these
three dudes had met up in some point in their lives and decided to create something
like YouTube instead of anything else which is also determined by a lot of factors,
but the problem is that they were only able to create YouTube because of the
internet. The internet only exists because of the guys that invented the internet
Robert Kahn and Vint Cerf. And the internet of course is only available because
these guys had access to a programmable computer which is invented by another
guy called Konrad Zuse. The first computer was invented almost entirely of metal
sheets, so, perhaps you clicked on this video because metal exists. But where did
metal came from? and why you chose to be on YouTube right now and doing your
homework instead of an infinite number of choices of other things you could have
chosen to do with your time?'
'God! Please shut up I just want to do my homework in peace.'
'Should I continue going down the rabbit hole or you get the point, or should I
bring some Michel Foucault concepts about this?'
'I see you are not going to leave me alone, and for your information I am
getting sick and annoyed by your relentless talk.'
'Okay, what about quantum mechanics which demonstrated that the quantum
world is completely random, so, technically determinism is wrong, don't you
think?'
'Well, actually no. Determinism only made the assertion that Human consciousness
is predetermined, not that absolutely everything is predetermined that school of
thought is called Fatalism. But you see even if the quantum world is nondeterministic this would not invalidate determinism. Allow me to raise another
question. Well, we know that the universe is made of atoms that function off of
cause and effect patterns, and 13.7 billion years ago there was the big bang which
led to a series of causes and effects where everything became everything. It led to
LV
the creation of the earth, planets, gas, metal, a guy named Konrad, two dudes
named Robert and Vint and on and on and on until we reach you clicking on that
specific YouTube video choosing to study instead of everything else that is possible.
Does this mean that all of this is predetermined? Were you destined to click on that
video instead of everything else? If everything stops right now and everything
dissolve back to nothing whatever we mean by ''nothing'' let us not go into that one.
Me, You, the video, the lesson, the internet, the universe all stopped and then
started all over again just as it did 13.7 billion years ago. In 13.7 billion years
would we be here now watching the same lecture and talking about this? Just like
knocking down dominos, we would end up watching the same lecture and talking
about the same thing, it will lead the last domino to fall in the same place and in
the same time as it did before. So, did we click on that lecture because we didn't
have a choice?'
'I am the one who usually asks and you are the one who usually answer.'
'I am just giving you something to think about, after all, I am you and we both
know we do not have the answer to these questions only theories.'
'Well I can say that I only clicked on that video because the thumbnail was
interesting, the title interested me and I like the professor who is presenting
this lecture.'
'What about when we make mistakes and learn from them I mean, we control
a lot of things in our lives.'
'This will raise the same problem, why did this thumbnail, title and professor
provoke or interested you? Did we have any say in this? Do we decide what
interest us or not? Sometimes I think that we are indeed free to click on that lecture
because we wanted to, but we are somehow not free to want to click on that video.
Perhaps this annoying conversation is completely our fault after all; we have been
reading ''Free Will'' by Dr. Sam Harris on repeat lately. We can even add the wellknown example of vanilla and chocolate, for us we would choose chocolate
someone else might choose vanilla whatever the choice is, we chose chocolate
because our taste buds have a chemical reaction to chocolate more pleasurable
then when our taste buds touch vanilla. We are this way because of our genetics
thus our genetics chose not us because we most of the times follow our greatest
desires and we have no choice in that.'
LVI
'Not to forget our choices are determined by neurophysiological events in the
brain, which are determined by our genes, background, childhood and life
experiences. All of which have wired our brain to do and behave in a certain way.
The things that caused us to be born in Algiers, Algeria we did not choose it. The
things that caused us to be not so tall, male and light skinned with our specific
parents we did not choose, and sometimes it even feels that they were chosen for
us.'
'This does not mean you sit back and decide that everything we do is meaningless
and not worth doing. It is true we cannot choose who we are but we can choose
what to do with it and what to be in the future at least I hope so. No one can
determine your future events given your past history and you are a living example
of it. There is always the wild card. There is always the possibility of uncertainty in
whatever we do. We are worth our participations and efforts in this life, we are
worth the effort and those efforts are necessary. We must try and we must care. We
must follow our goals, dreams, interests, passion... we must do things about them
and find out where we would end up and hopefully we would end up enjoying the
journey as well as the destination.'
'I still believe that reason and rationality are not automatic, something need to
be turned on and effort needs to be exerted in order to get them going. But I
still do not know. We both agree that there is no escape about determinism. In
philosophy they say you either agree with determinism or you don't
understand it yet. But you raised a lot of great questions which I am sure will
lead me to investigate even more. Even though we haven't talked about what
religion says about theses things, our intuitions, and we haven't even explored
compatibilism as well which agrees with determinism but also states that some
human actions we take are free. I like Paul Churchland's view when he says
''asking Am I free? Is the wrong question. Instead ask how much control do I
have? And the more control we have the more responsibility we also have". I
also have some amount of understanding of EL-QADAR the 6th pillar of
Islam, which is the religion I was raised upon and was taught in school. Now
thinking about it is making a lot a lot of sense.'
At some point, the conversation finally ended and I realized that I am
exhausted, and I end up not doing my homework. I blame this annoying
second me. I am starting to really hate this.
LVII
I heard noise downstairs so I went down to check. I saw a tall blond welldressed gentle man shaking my dad's hand. He certainly doesn't look
Algerian. My dad invited him in and as I was peeking from the stairs above he
saw me. My legs froze, and for a moment, I couldn't move. I regained control
and I returned to my bedroom. I laid down and wished this week break of
college to end already. I need to go back.
LIX
Chapter VIII:
Moody &
Emotional.
My alarm just rang it is 7 a.m. and as I opened my eyes I can sense this
overwhelming rush of ''I am going to fuck up this exam'' kind of anxiety. Last
couple of weeks I was foolish, I had an annoying never-ending conversations
with you know who that led me to consume a lot of weed just to shut him up,
but even though my roommate and I had a fun time unfortunately we didn't
study at all. I washed my face, put some radio music and had a black coffee
and I realized I am late.
'This day is just getting better and better.'
I put on my jean jacket, laced up my boots and raced to catch the bus that
would get me to Bouzereah.
'Quick! So you can get in time and screw up your Linguistics exam.'
I arrived 10 minutes late. I sat down, I looked at my left and there she was.
Sitting there with her beautiful long black hair, her amber eyes that can light
the whole world. I smiled at her and, smiled back and my heart sank. I filled
the questions in my exam paper, I had no idea what I was writing and I left.
'Such an idiot.'
I finally finished, headed out, I walked to an isolated place to sit and I lit up
my cigarette. I hoped Maissa would finish soon and join me. Damn how I
wished she was mine.
LX
'So this is your grand plan, to ignore me all day. We both know you are dealing
with an issue here and nobody can help you but me. And stop thinking about her
you will only get your heart broken. You are a soul remember and she is Amazigh
and we both what this can cause.'
'I hate this separation our society made us feel. AND FUCK YES, this is my
grand fucking plan and if you are referring to this moodiness I am having well
news for you genius I have been having them for the past two years. I wonder
why only now you want to help.'
'We both know that you want to deal with it, let us talk like old times we haven't
really spoke in weeks.'
'WE HAVENT SPOKE IN WEEKS! ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME?'
'Well you haven’t spoken in weeks. I have done all the talking by myself, which isn’t
fair to be honest.'
'Just shut up! And remember that I am still in control here remember that. I
am getting really tired of mood swings and of you. I mean, I wake up energize
and with good vibes and then almost an hour later I end up mired in selfhatred and tearfulness. By lunchtime, I would be angry because of these mood
swings then by the evening I am chilled and relaxed in my room. I mean who
am I kidding? I am not in control, I cannot it appears to even prevent my
mood from being subject to constant relentless change, to be honest I haven't
felt in control for a long time now.'
'I want to mock you a little bit but you are clearly angry so rain check. About your
moodiness I suggest you see it as an opportunity to open up to it to learn how to
manage the changes effectively.'
'I was wrong I don't need your help.'
'Oh get a grip I am just joking. Listen it is okay to acknowledge your vulnerability
and how vulnerable our moods are to being manipulated by small stuff. I mean look
at it this way, you can't expect to appreciate good music albums like Animals by
Pink Floyd or a beautiful play on one hand and then, on the other, stay unbothered
when something you hate happening happens or by something as weird as the
LXI
carpet not being perfectly symmetrical in your room. Why let anger take control
when you find things asymmetrical and uneven be okay with your soft skin and just
LET IT GO.'
'I get bothered what do you want me to do! But I hear what you are saying,
although it is easier said than done.'
'Yeah I know, sometimes even the so-called friends can cause these terrible
moodiness. Most of the times, to start really accepting this feeling and open up to it
means learning to take a scissor and cut those toxic relationships we have with
people. I mean the one great solace for a low mood or a good one is great
company: people who know how to reassure you that you still belong, that
moodiness, sadness, anger is to be expected and that your errors never put us
beyond compassion. They should laugh with you at these absurdity of all life, and
when low moods hit they will know how gracefully to take that step of accepting
our flows, because all of us have them and be grateful because you already have a
couple of people in your life exactly like this.'
'My advice on this topic is and this may be obvious: don't let your moodiness and
bad emotions carry you away. Sometimes emotions are not to be trusted, our senses
are fallible sometimes the way things appear to us are not what they are in reality.
Emotions and moodiness can make us fall into error, it is an unescapable fact that
our minds are seldom free from the influence of moods, and something like weather
can scouts over our mental horizons. I am happy seeing you trying to deal with
moods swings. Because they can have a decisive impact on your ideas and how you
see things. You might be in one mood considering yourself fortunate with a bright
future and feel grateful to those around us and then, hours later, without any
heads-up another mood might lead you to a whole set of re-evaluation and dread of
almost everything about yourself. It is hard to not realize that we are in the mood's
grip, we blame it on everything else where the problem is within us. I mean
tiredness can affect us. A small misunderstanding can ruin our day, and even turnons and lust moods can make us do things that we may regret later on which
reminded me of a quote by Arthur Schopenhauer when he said:" Immediately after
copulation, the devil's laughter can be heard." We need to be extra vigilant about
the impact of moods like sexual excitement, anger and tiredness on the formation of
our plans. It is so weird how the minds works but understanding how emotions can
manipulate us, appreciating the mind's flaws and how it works is the basis upon
which emotional skepticism is founded. This skill which is defined as a cautious
LXII
awareness of the sometimes misleading power of our moods and emotions on our
judgment, having acknowledge this the ancient Greek skeptic philosophers
suggested that we develop and learn an attitude which they call "Epoche",
translated as awareness of our judgement which means not rushing into making
one. I am saying this because if you didn't let your mood control you yesterday you
wouldn't have screwed the exam today. In your case, sometimes it is best to wait for
the unhelpful moods to pass, suspend judgment, think twice about your impulses
and appreciate this storm you are in.'
'What are you saying truly makes sense to me, and I am really trying my best
to be happy but sometimes as you know I fail miserably. I really do believe I
am a happy person and I have spent so much time searching for it and when I
do find it, it's like I have to search for a way to maintain it. But with all of this
going on my feelings, my emotions, and my mood swings I have realized that
happiness is a feeling or a mood if one can say. It is a feeling just like sadness
or anger and the thing about feelings as you mentioned before is that they are
not made to last. Moreover, when I really think about it this is why in the same
way why I wouldn't want to stay sad forever or angry forever, I can't expect to
be happy forever if that makes sense. I have to realize that emotions are things
that can go up and down with various speeds, and I think they come and they
go to teach us because nothing in this human experience is consistent.
Everywhere I look I see things changing, growing, moving and dying so that is
what is taking me not to strive for consistency in things like emotions and
moods. The thing is I don't want to be happy while stuffing down everything
else, because now I realize that emotions and moods are like energy I can't
destroy it. Putting emotions away or to think that I am productively ignoring
it and putting it to the side does not mean that I am dealing with it. I really
have to take time to deal with all of this.'
'That's what I have been telling you, I am glad you see these things as I see them.
And this is why I told you: "trust me, you do not want to enter a relationship right
now." Because when you do without dealing with all of these things which are
laying by the side in the closet deep in your mind, the door will open one day and it
would be a flood of negative emotions that you have been pushing away for so
long. You have to deal and embrace these moods and emotions and try to
understand them because this is the only way to help yourself whether it is moving
on from a previous relationship, losing someone, trauma or whatever the case this
is how you should deal with it. Humans can adapt to any situation it is true, but a
LXIII
person can never heal, deal or move on from someone or something if that person
is not honest with themselves. I am reminding you about this because this is how
you moved on from a lot of painful events in your life, because we both know that
people lie to themselves; we tell ourselves that we are fine, feeling better and we try
to pull up this front believing that if we faked it long enough we will make it. We
both know that doesn't work. I don't want you to go that path because people don't
understand that the pain that you are stuffing down will either come out all at once,
it will make you break down for days and days or it will slip out in moments you
don't want to. It will ruin your day, trip, a meeting with a loved one, it can lead you
to not trust someone or to spaz on people who most of them don't even deserve it.
On sad and painful moments it is okay to let yourself go through all the emotions
and be honest about them, you can't just keep harboring the hurt sometimes you
have to let yourself fully hurt. It will stay there if you don't deal with it, because
imagine if I got shot and the doctor tells me he is going to have to dig inside my
chest to take the bullet out. For sure I won't tell him I don't want that because I
already got hurt and I don't want to feel pain again because if I do and I let it heal
over the bullet would be still there. Now that bullet is affecting different parts of my
body. Now the led from that bullet is in my blood, you already know where I am
going with this. Let yourself experience the full emotions because when you are
done hurting, you are completely done hurting, you are not harboring anything it
will be completely out of your system. This allows a person to really start to know
himself. I wanted you to remember that because this is the advice we give to people
who struggles to move on from an ex or a bad experience and we fail to give it to
ourselves.'
'So perhaps my final thoughts about this is that no matter how bad it gets it will get
better in the same way that no matter how good it gets it will get worse. This is not
an optimistic or a pessimistic view it is a realistic one because nothing is
consistent. Therefore, perhaps instead of being a happy person or not you can be a
person who is happy right here right now.'
I noticed Maissa is coming my way. My heart started beating so fast. I looked
up and smiled. I rose up and gave her a hug, I don't know why but I needed
that hug; I needed that hug from her. She hugged me back I realized that the
bad mood has immediately went away. I was happy to see her. We decided to
get something to eat. W bought a snack and sat down in our favorite bench
here in college. I wished I can tell her how much I care about her, how much I
think of her but I know I couldn’t. We are good close friends and I don’t want
LXIV
to ruin that, and not to mention I am a Soul. I forgot those thoughts and I
fixed my whole attention on her. Her smile that light up the world, her
beautiful beauty mark above her pink lips, her red cheeks and small nose. She
made my day just by smiling. She made that voice inside disappear.
LXVI
Chapter IX: The
Split Self.
'Hey Man! How's life?'
'I don't know man, I guess it is alright. Just dealing with stuff like any other
human being and I have been sleeping a lot lately. At least my insomnia went
away, right?'
'Don't go that road, you don't want depression to come back, trust me.'
'What if depression never went and why should I trust, aren't you after all just
the voice in my head? So technically you are just a-know-it-all version of me,
nobody likes a know-it-all trust me trust me. I don't like you.'
I continued walking down the road heading to my favorite spot in town. I
realized that everything is changing. The streets of Algiers just four hours ago
used to be full now they are deserted. It is 3 a.m. already. I have to be honest
the city looks damn good like this. Anyways, I don't know why I am thinking
about this I never had a big problem with change specially with these
presidential elections that are coming soon. I am not that into politics and I
know nothing will change in this country. Even though I call myself an
Anarchist but for me the political way is not and will never be a visionary way.
I am feeling so weird lately, the mind is a very weird place, topics and topics
keeps getting in and it feels I never had a true moment of silence. Thoughts
like this gets me anxious and I always end up drowning in self-hatred.
LXVII
I reached my favorite bench and sat down. I gazed at the beautiful
picturesque, the white building, the big boats leaving the port and on top of
the hill the beautiful Monument of the Martyr's with its night lights of green
and red and white. I started to really investigate why I am feeling so depressed
lately I had various answers from self-hatred to routine and everything in
between, it is a lot of options but I have never felt this depressed before I have
to do something about it.
'May I say something?'
'No you may not. You are one of the reasons I am feeling down. Now thinking
about it, you are the bad voice inside my head always judging and teasing.
''What is up with that haircut mate. God your skin looks so awful, you have
spots all over your forehead and your nose is so big. You are so ugly. You look
like an asshole. Why are you smiling at her you never smile in real life? Oh
god is that your voice, you sound terrible mate. You know what you should do,
you should nail your front door shut and wait till you bloody die..." Should I
continue reminding you? Now, I am thinking about this I finally know what to
call you, how's Mr. Not Good Enough sounds like? You appear in disguise as
the voice of reason, the voice of common sense or the wise philosopher but
when I stop and I think about it for a second, I realize all you ever told me is
that I am not good enough.'
'Well that sounds bloody awful and I have no response for that. Oh look at this I am
still talking. I see you are losing the so called control you believed you had, Oh
please. You have no control whatsoever over me and I know that name you just
called me with, will not be around for long.'
'I am essential, I am necessary, I am vital. You cannot get rid of me and that is not
just my words, you see English philosopher Simon Critchley also said that. He
thinks that the self has two parts; the part we experience a.k.a. you and the little
voice who plays many roles a.k.a. me. He also thinks that little voice will never
fully go away. He doesn't mean that you can never be happy or satisfied; a person
can learn how to have a better relationship with himself which I strongly suggest
for you to do so. Trust me, you don't want to mess with me and you can believe
that.'
LXVIII
'Well that sucks, because most of the time you are a complete asshole and you
just can't stop talking for god sake. Just stop talking for once. Just shut up. It
is really hard to shut you up. And by the way, you can throw your philosophy
on me as much as you want; trying to hit me with this Split Mind Theory
where we criticize and give ourselves certain rules and standards and hold
ourselves to them won't work. Plus, you already know I don't understand
Immanuel Kant, I don't think I will ever do so you can save your breath. I am
curious though, where do you come from? Where do you even get your ideals
from? Because Simon Critchley pays attention to this question but mainly
when it plays the role of moral conscience. I want to know what happens to
you, my other self, when you start to act like a complete asshole? Or start
telling me lies and bad things? That's what I really want to explore. That' why
I want to answer those few questions because you Mr. Not Good Enough, you
are not playing the role of a moral conscience; which you are perfectly capable
of doing by the way. Instead, you are highly critical and to be honest just an
unkind fuck. You keep calling me those names and all.'
'Because you are, ugly-face.'
'What the fuck is wrong with you? You see, you do this quite a lot and it is
very demoralizing. When I look back at all of this I see half the time when I
was really at my lowest hitting rock-bottom, you were telling me I am good
enough, I am doing fine, you always wanted me to stay down. The other times,
you always make me think and see myself from the perspective of somebody
who really hates me, you transform into my arch enemy. You always lie and I
want to get to the bottom of this. I know you are not going to help me. But I
will learn how to shut you up and I will get to the bottom of all of this.'
'You are right I am not going to help you at all. Good luck in your quest, you will
fail like always by the way. I am telling you, you will never get rid of me. You
should just accept whatever I choose to say, whenever the fuck I want to say it and
that's it. I mean do you remember even a moment when I wasn't there?'
'We both know I won't accept that. You see; you disappear every time I am
with Maissa. Well, also remember when we went to Włodawa that small town
in the eastern Poland borders that's beautiful town. It was so snowy that day
and I remember when I got there with my friends, and we saw how small and
empty the town is; you started screaming that I came here for nothing and I
LXIX
have just wasted my time coming. But then we started walking through the
woods so near the river that separated Poland from Belarus; the river was
calm and cold, the trees were all filled with snow, and then we saw hundreds of
ducks forming the most beautiful image. My friends and I tried to lit up a fire,
we smoked and we were so bloody cold. I was so happy at that time. I had a
cigarette, music, good company and one of the most beautiful views I have
ever seen. I realized then how you lie about mostly everything. I realized that
the trip was so worth it. And for like a two short hours I was lost in beauty
without you. I am planning to get rid of you as I did back then.'
'It is true, I think it is one of the reasons people look at art or create it. It is
something that happens that pulls you into the present moment and just make
people focus on that experience, whether it is sunsets, a painting, a piece of music ,
a good book..., or gazing into the eyes of a loved one. It shuts the inner critique for
a second. I know that's why you have been meditating quite a lot because it gives a
similar experience. You are failing to mention that all of this is temporary quieting
so I am not worried at all. You will simply never win the war I can allow you to win
a battle or two but never the war.'
'Perhaps, you are right and I will never win but be sure I can create and
develop this sense of flow, enjoyment and a great pleasure in the day-to-day
pursuit. If all my pursuits of getting rid of you failed miserably, I will come for
you. I will change you completely and you can believe that.'
I got back to the present moment and I realized it is Fajr time already, the sun
is about to rise. I decided to stay and see the sunrise. As it was going up it hit
the water in just the right way that turned the whole sea into this incredible
mild orange gold color. It was like an ocean of autumn. I realized that I have
been sitting here for a while now and I haven't even bothered to appreciate
this beautiful view I am seeing. I am realizing that getting rid of him won't be
easy at all. I sensed I was getting angry and frustrated even though I am here
seeing this amazing view, feeling some sort of alive and still cannot help but get
angry. This is going to be really hard.
LXX
I opened my Instagram and wrote a text to Maissa, I just can't deal with the
fact that I am not with her right now. I am constantly missing her. My heart is
aching. I cant wait any longer. I told her how much I miss her and how lucky I
am to know her. I sent her a link of a song called -Do I Wanna Know by Arctic
Monkeys. I got up and headed back to the apartment, still hoping tomorrow
will be better.
LXXII
Chapter X:
Darkness, My Old
Friend.
I have been laying in bed for the last two weeks. And all I have done is
drinking coffee, smoking tons of weed, eating as little as possible and listening
to melancholic black metal. I didn't talk with my parents for almost a month, I
haven't responded to Maissa's texts or calls. I am also skipping college and
whenever the phone rings, it gives me a little heart attack. My friends didn't
really thought about what I am going through that much, they just thought I
am having another bad mood which led to this terrible two weeks phase of
sitting around, but it is more than. There was no way anyone seeing me laying
there could have known what I was feeling. No way they could have handled
the strange hell I was living through, or why death seemed such a
phenomenally great idea. I remember I was stunned that I am still alive after
these dreadful two weeks. I know that sound melodramatic, but depression
and anhedonia only give you melodramatic thoughts to play with. Anyways,
there was no relief. I wanted to be dead. No, that's not quite right. I didn't
want to be dead, I just didn't want to be alive. I thought about telling the
Police that I am a Soul. I thought that would be easier for a brief moment, but
then I thought I could end up down in a research facility to be experimented
on. After all, there hasn't been a single Soul in 5 years.
I have always talked about how comforting and not so scary the idea of being
dead because death is the answer to my entire existential crisis questions. Boy
I was wrong. Death is so scary when you encounter it, the idea of dying scared
the hell out of me that day, but that didn't stopped me from wishing and
longing to be dead. I thought a lot about what if I was never been born, the old
classic wish to be one of those people who have never been born. To be one of
those three hundred million sperm that hadn't made it. But then I
remembered I wasn't even born the old classical way. I didn't want to be
LXXIII
happy at all. I just wanted to feel the absence of this suffering. My mind was
on fire, my thoughts blazed and smoked like old possessions burned to the
ground and all I wanted is to escape them.
That stupid inner voice jerk never stopped talking. He made it feel that I am
descending into madness, which I believed back then. He made me do crazy
things and he almost annihilated me. You see last night I went to the roof of
my building; the 12th floor. I climbed the stairs and opened the little tight
hatch. The air smelt like pine and the sea. If I look closer I could see the water.
I imagined the edge of this building is right there, only few steps away from
the sea. No more than twenty steps. The only plan I had was to take twentyone steps in that direction. He decided that. At that moment taking the first
step, I felt like the roles have been reversed. It felt I had no control on my body
at all. I couldn't stop my legs. All I could do is count the steps my body was
taking. Nineteen, and I managed to stop. I sensed a strange sensation inside
my head. Some biological activity in the rear of my skull, not far above my
neck. The cerebellum. A pulsing or intense flickering, as though a little
monster was trapped inside and wanted to get out, combined with a tingling
sensation. I thought I was about to die. My heart started to go as I am looking
down. I took another step. I couldn't control any of my movements. It felt like
I sank inside my body. This body who is now a stranger to me.
'Don't chicken out. Just stop fighting this. Let it go and I will take it from here. I
could stop all of this by simply taking another step. Just stop fighting this, you know
you cannot beat me. A single step versus the pain of being alive. Don't be afraid
about jumping and not dying. Don't worry I will make sure you won't end up
paralyzed. I will make sure you and the entirety of your existence is smacked into a
sidewalk.'
A thought of my loved ones flashed inside of me. I wondered if they will
understand me. At that moment, I wished I never had anyone. They didn't
know what it was like, what was my mind like. Maybe if they were in my head
for a while they would understand. They would be like: "Oh we understand,
yes you should jump. There is no way you should feel this amount of pain, Just
jump. Or give me a gun I will shoot you." But that was not how it worked,
when you are depressed your pain is invisible. I looked down and I spotted a
cat. The cat reminded me of my seven cats back home. Cats don't kill
themselves, they are survivors. I wanted more than anything to be that cat I
LXXIV
was looking at. Death right there felt so close, I wondered if there is a universe
where I would take this step, I wondered if this one is.
I slowly started to gain control back over my body and I was able to take a
step back. I looked back and I threw up almost instantly. I felt all the tons of
weed I smoked and every sweet I ate coming out of my body.
'Coward.'
I felt a weird tingling sensation in my hands and feet, I was unable to move my
fingers for couple of minutes. In a weird way, the throwing up helped me gain
more control of my body and I now I am grateful I guess for the ton of weed I
had.
'Do you know that suicide kills more people than stomach cancer, domestic abuse,
gun assaults, cirrhosis of the liver, colon cancer, breast cancer and the Alzheimer's
all together. It is a disease so bad that people are killing themselves because of it,
in a way they do not kill themselves with any other illness. The bizarre thing people
still don't think depression is that bad. Like Arthur Schopenhauer said:" We should
always be mindful of the fact that no man is ever very far from the state in which he
would readily want to seize a sword or poison in order to bring his existence to an
end."'
'I don’t care, shut the fuck up?'
I laid on my back and started to breathe slowly.
'Do you know that suicide is technically illegal here. If you get caught attempting it
like now you can be arrested. As in, handcuffs, threatened by the cops, and thrown
in the back of an ambulance. Fun right. You can even be imprisoned in a psych
ward if you are "a danger to yourself" and many people who experienced stuff like
this and chickened out describe those conditions that are more like punishment
than care. So get up, let us finish what we started.'
'Ahh let me catch my breath but thinking about it, I think I want to continue
living for the time being. Perhaps Camus was right, in the end one needs more
courage to live than to kill himself.' The stars filled the sky, it was such a
beautiful night sky.
LXXV
'You think you want to continue living. Is that your answer? I mean you can't even
decide what you want for dinner. Let me answer questions like this.'
'Do you think I am mentally ill? Because that is the term the government and
the doctors use when someone tries to kill himself. They make a connection
that everyone who tries to kill himself must be mentally ill; therefore, the
government or the doctors can decide for you because you don't know what's
good for you anymore?'
'I don't think that every suicidal attempt, whether its results a death or not is
necessarily a sign of insanity or mental ill.'
'You are bringing the subject of rationality, I mean right now? Right now?'
'Yeah, I mean do you know French philosopher Franz Fanon was a
psychiatrist treating Algerian patients during the French colonization in
Algeria? Those patients happens to choose to kill themselves rather than to
return to their lives. He realized that there was no point making them better
when the main problem is in their lives, the fact that the French were
occupying their lands and torturing them.'
'Also, a lot of people killed themselves as a sign of protest for the injustice like
the Buddhists monks in 1963, or people who killed themselves because of the
government neglect on their life conditions. There is a lot of examples out
there. You know?'
'Of course I know.'
'It is just an example that most people do kill themselves but because of
rational thinking they reached that conclusion, they actually think about it.
They are not mentally ill.'
'Are you trying to imply that what you almost did was based on rational thinking? I
am with you, you are not mentally ill, because if you are that means I am too.
Maybe we are who knows? Who cares? Let us just finish what we have started.'
LXXVI
'Some people care, I guess I care. Sometimes.' I continued gazing at the
beautiful night sky. I grabbed my Marlboro Red packet from inside my jean
jacket and I lit one up.
'All I am saying is that this attempt doesn't fit the normal pattern of what is
thought to be a mental illness, because this doesn't really impair my normal
functioning. For years now I have been thinking about death almost everyday,
so this isn't new for me. Don't get me wrong I still hate the shit out of you, I
still think you are pure evil, and I still feel like I am stuck in a tiny, hot, tight
place. But I know if I can be brave enough I can still make it somehow. I am
starting to hate when I read a good novel and it says THE END by the end of
it, or when people say it. I think I will start using TO BE CONTINUED
instead.'
A mixed of feelings of gratitude and compassion rushed through my chest; for
the sky I am seeing right now, the place where I am now, and the people I have
in my life and a lot more. I realized then that this night is not the end. This
night have made things to continue.
'I am not that evil.'
'That what you got from that? I have been talking for what it feels like an
hour. I wonder why you are so evil to me, I mean you are supposed to be on
my side after all I am you.'
'The question of Evil always alluded us. Do you really want to bring this up now?
No wonder I am evil to you I mean listen to yourself and what you are saying.'
'I just want an answer to this. Why are you so evil? You are driving me
insane.'
'Well I don't know what to say. I mean if we start questioning this then we will end
up asking why there is evil in the first place. And if there is a god who is indeed an
omniscient, omnipotent and omnibenevolent then why evil exists? Both the human
evil and the nature one, why?'
'I know and I don't want to talk about that precisely. I mean I know that evil
exists and it is the lack or absence of goodness. And we can interpret this in
LXXVII
many ways. The Muslims or the Christians may say that evil is the work of
Lucifer, or it is driven solely by man's wickedness but the latter will raise
another question and takes us to the same route that these actions originate
with Satan or it is an absence of the good. Whatever the answer is, it doesn't
matter I suppose, what I know is that evil is highly immoral and it is motivated
by bad factors. I mean yeah of course we all did stupid bad things, but I never
did something that really hurt people. So I wonder now why are you pure evil
to me?'
'Well I won't answer that because after all I am you. Evil is so widespread and if I
can paraphrase German philosopher Hannah Arendt who argued that evil is not
driven solely by wickedness and malevolence but are cause by human faults. She
says that evil is banal or ordinary.'
'I knew you will throw "The Banality Of Evil" right on my face. I know what
you mean, and I know that Arendt is not saying that the evil perpetrated by
Hitler, Stalin or Genghis Khan is forgivable or anyway ordinary but rather
that those evil deeds are human in character.'
'It is an uncomfortable truth. So perhaps evil is not exclusive to select few
individuals but rather evil is something we can all fall to. It is the product of human
and consciousness condition. So simply I am a part of you, which happens to be
evil. There are no beautiful surfaces without a terrible depth Nietzsche said that.'
I gave up on the conversation and I decided to head down back to my room. I
knew I will have to really think and figure a way to handle this another part of
me but how do I take off a mask when it stops being a mask. When it is as
much part of me as I am? I lit another cigarette on my way down and as I
reached my room, I realized that I escaped the conversation without much
trouble, and without me even realizing it. Perhaps I can do more of this.
Perhaps there is a bigger part of me who want to hold on. I wanted to lay
down and just read like always. I had always considered myself a person who
liked books. But there is a difference between liking books and needing them.
Books are Class A addictive substance. I think I read more books in these six
months than I had done during mu three years so far in college. I certainly
had fallen deeper into the worlds conjured on the page of a book. I opened the
LXXVIII
door and I found my friends playing Dominos. I put on some old classic
Algerian music and joined them.
LXXIX
"...Once the storm is over you won't
remember how you made it through, how
you managed to survive. You won't even
be sure, in fact, whether the storm is
really over. But one thing is certain.
When you come out of the storm you
won't be the same person who walked in.
That's what this storm is all about."
 -Haruki Murakami,
 Kafka on the Shore.
LXXXI
Chapter XI: The
Calm after the
Storm.
There is always the potential of conflict. That is what I am learning about
myself. We all go through different narratives in life and like in any story
conflict will be there. I realized that this person who is living with me inside
have a different narrative, different values and different perspectives. I am all
supportive to some conflict or some level of adversity and criticism but going
insane is not one of them.
'Don't forget you are a wreck. You are addicted to worrying, even if everything is
going alright you invent new reasons to worry. Like what is happening with you
and Maissa. You will screw things up I know it.'
It has been almost a month since I tried to end my life. I went on a trip last
week to the eastern parts of Algeria; it reminded me how beautiful the world
is. It made me think how funny and how sad it would have been, because if I
went through with what happened on that rooftop I would have never seen
those beautiful views. I would have never appreciated or felt the things that I
have felt there. I would have never had this feeling of gratitude right now.
Although the war is still there inside my head, I am starting to bounce back
from all of this. I realized that traveling makes the war go away but
unfortunately, I can't travel all the time, I need to find another solution.
Yesterday the war inside was intense, it didn't allow me to sleep much. I knew
running away from this won't help at all. I need to face this or nothing will
change. I am still in my bed still searching for a way to deal with this battel
because I knew if I am doing this it will be tough.
LXXXII
I realize that if I am going to face this thing inside, I need to do this right. I
must put all of my efforts today in just that. I opened my eyes and stared at
the ceiling. 'You got any suggestion? I want to destroy you today.'
..........
'Look who is quite. I thought you loved to talk.'
'I do but only when I choose to.'
'Maybe you can do a dopamine detox. I will make sure nothing will distract you or
allow you to run from your real self.'
'How generous of you. But a full day without technology, work, exercise,
reading or listening to music? I wonder if you are tricking me.'
'Maybe you can add no sugar too. I don't want you to escape to food. I mean why
not? Your whole life feels like a series of experiments anyway.'
'I mean it is going to be tough. I will be facing a lot of things like my fear of
boredom, the maddening feeling of not getting anything done and not doing
my routine which is an escape from you. Damn.'
I got up, I made coffee and I realized how hard it is not to do the usual
morning routine. I almost put music on, but I didn't and the voices just kept
coming. I decided to do an one hour meditation session. I don't know if this
counts as an escape but I couldn't handle the noise inside. I needed to
concentrate on something else and I thought perhaps my breathing will do.
After a good one-hour meditation session, I went to the balcony and gazed at
the clouds. I sat there for a long time. At least that what it felt like but
apparently time is standing still. It is only 11 a.m. and I am getting mad
already.
'Perhaps time doesn't pass anyway. Have you ever thought about it? I mean let's
think about the word "here", there is no property of "here-ness" right? if one can
say. Therefore, you are here in your balcony, and someone is there outside. The
world "here" is what philosophers call indexical. A word whose meaning changes
depends on who uses it.'
LXXXIII
'What the hell are you talking about?'
'For us our bedroom is "here" and your mother's is in her place "there" but for her
is the other way around. that's how the word works. So what I am saying perhaps
time doesn't even pass, the present is like the word HERE, an indexical. And past
and future are like the word THERE. The present perhaps just refers to the bit of
time where we are, but in fact all times exists equally. Do you get what I mean?'
'I will stick with I am just bored to death and time feels like it is standing still.
Thank you very much.' I realized that I need to figure out a way to escape this
boredom. It is making me angry.
'Agh! I am bored to death.'
'Oh let's talk about it, can we? Maybe we can figure it out together.'
'That's seems odd. You never ask, I mean you always just jump into it. Are
you experimenting on me? Or what are you doing exactly?'
'Don't be paranoid. I just want to help. I think we should put what happened
between us behind us and start a new page.'
'Boredom is so awful it feels almost like it physically hurts sometimes, you
know? I mean I am so bored to the point that I am discussing boredom with
myself. I feel like I need to stay busy and do my routine but I know that
staying busy is just another way to remain distracted and to fulfil this desire to
be productive. While not necessarily accomplishing anything at all. God!
Wouldn't it be great if there was no feeling of boredom?'
'Perhaps it would be good. However, I think boredom is a way to make us engage
in different things in life like exciting projects and activities or creative endeavors.
To find things to do because there is a difference between engaging intentionally in
life and finding random shit to fill time with. I mean think about it, right now
because of this itching feeling of boredom your mind is going to work sorting,
connecting and imagining just to find a way to engage in something. Boredom
pushes us to do stuff.'
LXXXIV
'So what you are saying is that perhaps it is not a bad idea to let my mind do
its natural thing; to wander and roam.'
'Yes, and to watch it with curiosity. Hell! you can even bring a pen and paper to
write down things that seem interesting. I think the best ideas out there happened
when the people who had them were doing boring mundane things. Think about it,
some of the best ideas we had were when we were doing the dishes, or when we go
on autopilot and we teleport thousands of kilometers away to the experiences we
had in the past. Or to the different scenarios that we imagine would happen in the
future that perhaps will never exists beyond the borders of our imagination. So
perhaps, the more we open ourselves to boredom the more creative ideas we will
receive. I really think boredom has a role to play when it comes to deep work,
creativity and finding our flow.'
I realized that by just sitting here in the balcony is giving me space to think. I
mean I have been living here In Algeria for my entire life. I lost that sense
of gratitude, wonder and excitement about Algiers and other beautiful cities in
this country. Nevertheless, by just sitting here and seeing all this life outside is
making all those emotions I lost come back a little. I feel I needed this to
disconnect from everything, to rest. I got back in, I took a shower and I had a
long restful nap, I didn't sleep like this in years. I woke up and felt completely
rested. When I wake up, I usually feel pain in my back and sometimes tired! I
usually wake up after 6 or 7 hours of sleep tired. So feeling rested like this
really increased my feeling of gratitude of today. It was 03.22 p.m. I realized I
didn't eat a thing since maybe 20 hours ago and I feel insanely good. I went for
a walk in the park and met some friends there. We had a great conversation
where I felt completely present in the moment and clear mentally. I got back
home. I did some more meditation and had dinner. I tried to really focus on
my eating, the way I hold the fork that it is going slowly toward my mouth. I
tried to focus on how I chew, and the flavors inside my mouth.
Time passed quite rapidly and it is already 09:30 p.m. I went to bed with a cup
of coffee, and I had this strange feeling of anger. It is really strange how my
mood can shift dramatically and so quickly without even a simple warning. I
felt an enormous amount of rage that I couldn't help but get so bloody angry. I
tried to focus on my breathing. But every breath I take is a reminder of how
easily my mood can change, which led to breathing aggressively and without
even realizing it I am holding my pillow on my face screaming my fucking
LXXXV
lungs out. I held so much inside for these past months now thinking about it, it
feels like I had no reactions at all. I lit a cigarette and I wept. I cried my eyes
out for a good 20 minutes. The crying helped take off a little bit of my rage,
but as soon as I remember this I feel I am getting mad at myself again. I think
I really need help, but I looked on this empty small apartment that I am living
in and I knew that nobody can help me unless I figured this on my own.
'I wanted to laugh at you a little but I couldn't help but get a weird sense of
empathy and compassion. I think I am broken too ha-ha. Let's talk it will get your
mind off things.'
'As much as I appreciate you trying to help, I think I will just try to sleep
perhaps tomorrow will be better. After all, whenever I talk to you I feel like I
am losing the sense of what is real and what isn't.'
I thought about calling or texting my girlfriend. Just after my incident I pulled
up my guts, I finally asked her out, and she said yes.
'I still cant believe it too. The idea of a guy like you is with a wonderful being like
her is beyond my understanding.'
After all she is my favorite human and I can't think of anyone else I'd rather
talk to but her. I decided not to, I am in such a mess I am afraid my anger will
slip out in our conversation. I thought about her and I focused. As I focused on
her image on that beautiful face, her display on my mind grew more vivid and
my anger started to blur out. Her beauty alone was enough to calm my soul
while simultaneously rocking the earth that I stand on. But still, she wasn’t
maddening due to her to her beauty. She was maddening because it was just a
fraction of what she was. You see everything she said was perfect even the
cracks in her voice came out right. Her gestures, everything she did was
perfect. She had grace, and charm and style like no other girl that I have seen
before. When she smiled it would break me in half and at the same time give
me life like I have never felt before. I smiled and felt the sense of gratitude
again.
'Do you have any thoughts about why I have these episodes of anger all of the
sudden? I mean how is it possible that I can be both angry and yet unaware of
LXXXVI
the causes of my annoyance?' I asked as I thought by making a conversation it
may lead me to go to sleep.
'It is possible after all. We are bad at keeping close tabs on the origin and nature of
many of our feelings. We can laugh deeply and struggle to explain exactly why
something has set us off. Same thing can happen when we get angry, sad or
nostalgic. We can find something beautiful or not without having any ,secure hold
on the detailed mechanics of our responses. Understanding all of that can be very
hard, and sometimes we have to trail far behind to do that. Sometimes it can be too
painful and guilt-inducing to acknowledge that we are feeling furious or
vengeful so I am glad you are acknowledging that. You need to be careful about the
things that trigger you even the small things. No no especially the small things. We
learn not to pay attention to these things that we regard as small and insignificant
because we imagine ourselves strong and above being slighted by small petty
injuries; injuries which wound us substantially just the same as the big ones.'
'I do get what you mean. This may be the-weird-mood-I am-having talking but
thanks. All the crying made me feel this strange sensation, don't mind me.'
'No it's alright. After all, all these emotions you are feeling made me feel this
strange sensation too. We may not be so different after all.'
'Actually, a good cry can be helpful most of the times. Perhaps to get rid of this
anger slash depressive mood is to realize that maybe cheerfulness isn't right now
the alternative. Perhaps mourning.'
'Mourning?'
'Yes, perhaps a focused kind of grief over a kind of loss of our ability to control our
moods which can lead to moving on. Or perhaps you can throw a little absurdist
smile to all of this, and add a sense of wonder and amazement of all of what these
particles which are us can produce. Becoming conscious of all of these emotions
can decisively change our bad mood. You can sleep now and tomorrow will be
better.'
Sleep came suddenly, I drank a full cup of water. I felt I haven't drank water
in a very long time. I closed my eyes and I realized that I will never be done
with the business of knowing myself. This thought didn't scare me.
LXXXVIII
Chapter XII:
Beautiful things.
I am in my head again. I am having an insatiable desire to get stoned again. I
remembered that I have a gram or two of OG Kush back at my place and that
thought alone scared me. I know that I will cave in at some point this year, but
I promised myself just after I got down from that rooftop to stop for at least
for six months. It has only been five weeks. My suicidal thoughts are not
coming at me like that used to. I'd like to believe that I am getting better, that
I am healing but I learned that I can't be sure about that. I still have suicidal
thoughts popping out from time to time. Like the one I am having right now
while I am standing here waiting for the train to come. Platform Five can be
the last place. The train is coming; everybody is stepping back a little. Just one
step that step that I have failed to take back then. Everything can cease to exist
in a blink of an eye. Just one more step. It felt everything is going real slow
and there is almost no sound at all. That's what it felt like in a crowded train
station. That's what it felt like while listening to 'Ghost walking' by Lamb Of
God. No sound at all. I stepped back like I did hundred times before and
entered the train. I just bought a cheap nude painting; everyone in the train is
looking at it and looking at me at the same time. Two naked bodies one of
them is smoking. It is not a Mateja Petkovic good but it is still quite alright. I
wondered why it was on sale. On an empty street downtown Algiers. I sat
down and my mind took me where I was just an hour ago. In college sitting on
a bench with her. It is my mind's and soul's favorite place; with her. Two
worlds colliding. The mixture of the past, the present and the future in
seconds. Creating future memories to happen right now. I grabbed my
notebook and I wrote down 'Small Beautiful things.' Beautiful things like her
smell that it is still on my cloths, like her breath that it still on my neck and
like her kiss that I can still taste. Beautiful things like these small heart shaped
paper that she made me so I can put it on my notebook, like a funny language
that we created for fun but now it became part of how we talk. I have been
tormented by the thought should I tell her? I know she would understand but
LXXXIX
it is a hard thing to grasp. Even though I am as human as one can get but I
still have A.I instead of my brain. I still can't have children. I am still a threat
to people like the government says. I have been making a list named ''reasons
to stay'' on my notebook and I have been trying to write things down every
day. I wrote down her and beautiful things. Today Beautiful things that is her
have saved my day. My mind lately have been daydreaming about her a lot.
Everything I see and everywhere I look, it reminds me of her. How would I
avoid all of these things? Or is it too late for me? It feels like I am lost in
various worlds except when I am with her talking to her. It is the only world I
want to be lost in.
I got back to my apartment, lit a cigarette and hanged the painting above my
bed. I am loving the details of this. I don't understand the meaning behind it
but I learned to love mysteries. I am not running to find and put a meaning to
everything anymore. Sometimes meaning ruins beautiful things. I am just
going to look at its fulfilling details. I am enjoying beautiful details, details like
this last puff of my dying cigarette.
'Have you ever wonder why we see things like this beautiful? I mean what is
beauty? What makes a thing beautiful? I mean is there a link between ugliness and
beauty? Because some people will not see this painting as beautiful.'
'Yeah that's something to think about.' I said as I laid in bed looking at the
painting; The Weeknd is playing in the background.
'And it is not only about paintings. Music, movies, Novels and not only the
controversial ones like Nude paintings, or erotic novels like the ones I read this
week Ada or Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov. I mean every creative endeavor
from creating sculpture, perfumes, painting to photography... et cetera can be
ugly to some people and aesthetically beautiful to others. I wonder why? How
can something be so beautiful to some and hideous to others?'
'I like the ancient idea about beauty is about balance, it goes right back to ancient
Greek philosophers. Like I guess people love symmetrical things which Aristotle
said it is one of the main forms of beauty. It is true we happen to judge people face
and we think a person face is attractive if it happens to be symmetrical.'
XC
'True, but there are all kinds of beautiful asymmetrical unbalanced things.
Paintings, flowers, faces...et cetera and after all these are only our personal
taste. Everyone have a taste of the thing they like. Maybe this balance thing is
just a small factor, maybe it is all about something else desire for example.'
'I knew you would say that. You finished Plato's book where he talks about this and
now you are trying to brag about it in front of me.'
'You know me too well.'
'Yeah I get what you mean. After all some people desire those paintings and other
things and some people simply don't. So yeah perhaps there is a link between desire
and beauty. But a desire for what exactly? That's the question. Maybe these
paintings or erotic novel writers like Nabokov can provide an answer. I mean look
at this painting. It is well painted it certainly looks like real images of people, the
light and shadows in it looks absolutely magnificent. Moreover, let us not forget the
guy that is touching that woman's naked body from behind; she is smoking a
cigarette so that's also a nice detail as well. So It has erotic scenes. Hmmm. So
horny scenes like this are about sexual desire.'
'Yeah but its purpose not only that. Not only sexual desire. I mean we can look
at it from different perspective not only graphic sex you know. The painting is
beautiful but I have a thought that perhaps it is about the artist who happens
to be a lover describing the person who is so in love with. He is drawing a
sincere passionate moment he had with his lover, he is drawing every detail of
that woman. Every beauty mark, every scare, every line in the face, and every
curve. He simply adores every single bit of that moment and if we look at it
from this perspective it is damn good. I mean even philosophers talked about
erotic paintings like this who suggested that the essence of the erotic is not just
about being explicit but mostly about feelings and the sense of touch, wonder,
heat, pressure and breath...et cetera. What I am saying is that perhaps beauty
is about desire, and erotic desire happens to be a very strong component in all
of this. But it is a bit disappointing I mean is that all?'
'I don't think it is all about that. I mean a person for example can say ''That is a
beautiful person'' without erotic desire you know? So I don't really think everything
is about sex.'
XCI
'Perhaps you are right. Now thinking about it ancient Greek philosopher Plato
was interested in the connection between beauty and desire where he wrote
one of the famous dialogues ever The Symposium. So, Plato actually thought
or Socrates thought, sometimes I can't tell who is Socrates and who is Plato if
you know what I mean. Plato thought it is more to it than just you know....
Sex.'
'In the symposium, Aristodemus who I believe was an advocate of
sapiosexuality said that love is both the love of the body and the love of the
mind meaning: intelligence and goodness. The other character Aristophanes
suggested that when humans were created they were created into three
genders: male, female and non-binary. Back then he said that everybody had
two faces, four legs, four hands So basically it's like two people mixed
together. He claimed that this early human form was so powerful that the
Greek God Zeus cut them all in two, so that's the reason of our desire to look
for beauty and love. That's why we are always looking for our other half.'
'Can I finish the story? You know I love Socrates.'
'Sure, go ahead.'
'Then Socrates gets up and he disagreed with them all. Typical Socrates. He said
love is the love of something, the desire for something we lack. It is neither
beautiful nor ugly, neither divine nor mortal but a mixture of the two. From my
understanding, he suggested that that is the reason why we look for beauty. He
knew that beauty is found in almost everything, and when realizing this he said you
would ultimately know that the higher beauty is in the soul not the body. You would
also realize that the higher love is in the abstract idea of raw beauty. Of course we
can look the other way in various religious texts where they suggest to just
appreciate beauty but with no desire whatsoever is a better way. Letting go of
desire they claimed is a way to reach a state where we don't want anything, ergo
happy with life just accepting life as it is.'
'I still don't understand a lot of concepts in The Symposium but perhaps
beauty lies in contemplation as well as desire. But the weird thing is that Plato,
Socrates even Kant or Burke suggest that contemplation or the sublime as
they call it is higher and even better than just regular beauty.
XCII
I mean how? I am not a hedonist but I mean imagine being deprived of the
company or the touch of your lover; all those things that makes life
pleasurable, enjoyable and just amazing you know. I don't ever think I will be
satisfied only by contemplation maybe that's not the point but I mean who
would. About the religious thing, I don't know dude, life without desiring
anything doesn't seem my idea of a beautiful fulfilling life. Not looking and
desiring for anything seems to me even worst. There is an absurd amount of
theories about this, which if you follow it will lead you all the way to the top to
the main question of the meaning of life. Life is all about seeking happiness
and trying to do things that makes us happy, perhaps Camus was right: the
only way to live is to confront the absurd and keep living anyway as an act of
rebellion. He said seeking beautiful things like art, pleasure, desire, comfort is
a way to preform this act of rebellion. So perhaps it is all about finding these
beautiful things in this weird world where we most likely won't find any
answer to our big questions and just hold this beauty we see and feel and enjoy
it. Exactly like this beautiful painting I am looking at because after all
beautiful things in a weird world can remind us to keep desiring, it gives us a
reason to keep on living.'
XCIII
I glanced on through the window and the sun is already setting. I grabbed a
Marlboro cigarette from my jacket and put on Fkj playlist. I noticed that my
desire for smoking weed was completely gone. It feels like it got replaced by
this sensational desire of looking at beautiful things. Like this amazing sunset
and this creamy orange sky, it is just so beautiful. I added sunsets to my
notebook and It just felt good. I missed this it has been a while. I grabbed the
weed I was hiding and flushed it down the toilet. The voice inside is getting
softer on me. It doesn't feel like an issue to me; at least that's what I am feeling
about it this week. That is what I am hoping for anyway. I think we are done
fighting and we are in a kind of truce at the moment. Nevertheless, one thing
for sure it feels so freaking weird that I am feeling grateful for the
conversation we just had, I can't remember the last time I felt like this. It is So
freaking weird.
XCV
Chapter XIII: To
Us, Sincerely.
07 a.m. my alarm is ringing. I woke up as soon as it rang. Official classes
are finally here. I am excited for college, autumn, philosophy lectures and
more. After all, I am finally moving away from an entire dreadful negative
summer that I had. I don't think I will ever forget that period of time, it was
indeed very hard and very suicidal and I don't have a single clue what's the
future is holding for me. Although it is very hard to make this shift of mind, I
am still trying to think positively. And believe it or not Mr. Not Good Enough
is actually helping me since we had our discussion about a week ago. That is
something I never thought would happen.
I got up, washed my face and stared in the mirror. 'Have you ever had a
feeling where you stare at yourself for too long and feel a slight of disconnect
between your consciousness and your physical being? But then you stare even
more and you think damn I am really in this body, I am in this body, I am this
body… and I look a lot like my dad.'
'I know right! I find this very fascinating. Something for sure is we can't doubt this.
Like Rene Descartes, ''I think therefore I am'' we can't doubt that we are thinking
and staring at the mirror.'
I dressed up, grabbed my coffee, lit a cigarette and went to the car. I put on
some old classic Megadeth on low volume and headed to Bouzereah.
'Damn traffic jam! I have literally never seen this road without traffic jam, ever.'
'I know right! Sartre was partially wrong in his No Exit play. Hell is not other
people. Hell is getting stuck in traffic. It is not bothering me that much, I mean
I have been feeling great lately physically and mentally. Now I think about it,
it seems I can't even remember how I physically felt when I got suicidal. It is
XCVI
weird I know. I mean even when I remember how I felt mentally. I remember
all those fears that I had. Those fears not one of them came true.'
'You are right. When thinking about it, it makes me curious. You were a mess back
then, but now you are getting out more, traveling more, and making goals. You
used to think all those bad stuff all the time but now recognize those are anomalies
that can be addressed. You are climbing out of this depression, and you started that
climb weeks ago. So... What happened? What changed?'
'I don't know man! These suicidal and depressive periods I had were not like a
lightning bolt where you know that you have been hit and you are so damaged.
It is more like a poison that someone slips into your food in little doses, and
you sit down every night and you eat that poison without realizing that it is
building up inside you until you stop functioning. When I stop and I start to
think about it I know that you were that someone and the poison at the same
time.'
'What!! Me? Are you craz...'
'AH AH AH Ah! you don't shout anymore. I am in control. You can't ruin this
good mood I am having. Not anymore. People and psychologist say that people
don't know they are in an abusive relationship when they are in them. We
have some sort of a relationship and it is abusive. I managed to shut you up
when I am meditating, traveling or with my girlfriend or my loved ones and I
thought about it a lot. I thought I deserved it. But man I didn't deserve what
happened.'
I am moving again. It is already 8 a.m. fortunately classes don't start until 9.30
a.m.
'Allow me to bring you back to philosophy 101, where Aristotle said that a
good person isn't only about doing the right thing for the right reasons, but
also having the right virtues. You know bravery, empathy, compassion stuff
like that. You need to have them in the right amount as well Aristotle said. I
XCVII
mean you don't want to be too brave or you will be reckless, you got to have
what he called The Golden Mean. And yes you can even be too loving, or too
kind. Now I am thinking about it, when it comes to you I was too
compassionate. I was constantly dragged by you and your negative talks.
Always saying yes to your negative plans. Let us smoke 2 grams of weed or
let's get into a fight or some stupid other things. You almost killed me. I never
said what I want, never asked for anything that might inconvenience you and
your evil plans for me. All of that went hand in hand with my low self-esteem
because I had been so discouraged by you I thought what I needed wasn't
really worth anything. Like I didn't deserve to be a better version of me. And
like you said I have done the Descartes thing where I doubted everything I
think I know that was causing my deep depression until I found the one
undoubtable and when I found it your discouraging depressive words, words
like "You are worthless, you are nothing..." where all over it. I can't have that
as a foundation of my whole life view. I realized I needed a new philosophy.'
I realized that I am going 150 km per hour. I slowed down, breathed slowly. I
caught myself getting a bit intense so I relaxed. I can't let thoughts like this
dictate how I feel.
'What I did is that I realized all those great opportunities I missed, how many
goals I didn't start because I had swallowed that poison. I felt like I am mind
colonized by you. How many times I turned my back on my girlfriend, family
or friends just because of you. I had to accept that I will never be able get rid
of you so I am changing you. I am changing you to a more my-way kind of
voice. I am breaking the habit of you.
I realize I have to accept that what I have been through can have a lasting
effects. I still have flashbacks sometimes nightmares that can trigger me but it
is getting rarer and rarer.'
'Unbelievably, I am happy for you about this. I am also glad you realize that going
through all of this and recovering isn't like a movie where the protagonist just
learns the lesson and then applies it and go save the day. It doesn't work like that, it
XCVIII
is more like rehearsing a play. You have to keep going over it and over it until it
becomes unconscious and natural. And that exactly what you are doing. Now I
understand your sudden interest, the weird positive affirmations you listen to every
night you go to bed and the shelf that is filled with self-help books besides in your
bedroom.'
'Yeah I realize I still have a lot of distance to go, but the progress is real. I
have changed in these past months since the accident in the rooftop. I am not
the man I was. I mean it is weird the journey of self- discovering, It took me
times to realize that the thoughts I have been having aren't mine per say. I
realized that bad ideas like those I had were so deep within that I thought they
were me, that they were mine. It took a lot of time with the help of my favorite
people and books so I can slowly grow it out. I am still doing it.'
I had a weird pulling sensation that I must go to the sea. I wasn't planning on
skipping my psychology class but I just couldn't help but feel this itch and
desire that I want to go to the sea. I took the first left I saw and headed to the
sea. I called my girlfriend and we decided to meet there in an hour, we are
both skipping apparently. After a while, I reached the sea. I pulled up my car
near the cliff. I stepped out and lit a cigarette.
'Shame man! You made me feel all of those ugly things, which now I know
that were not me. You were supposed to help me, but you didn't. I kept all
what was killing me inside. I got addicted, depressed; I even fucking hated to
smile for god sake. I was in the damn flames. Those times felt like me and
death were tongue-kissing.'
'Actually French-Lithuanian philosopher Emmanuel Levinas talked about this
shame of vulnerability in his book ''On Escape'' where he said that: "shame arises
each time we are unable to make others forget our basic nudity. It is related to
everything we would like to hide and that we cannot bury or cover up... This
preoccupation with addressing to hide ourselves concerns every manifestation of
our lives, our acts, and our thoughts."Everybody is ashamed for this because we
are all vulnerable; we all seek to hide our vulnerabilities from others.'
XCIX
'I have to admit I like this newer version of you. But you should be fair enough
and continue his quote, because we don't hide our vulnerability from other
only. One seeks to hide from oneself as well.'
'Fair enough, Levinas continued and he said: "One seeks to hide from others, but
also from oneself... We see in shame its social aspect; we forget that its deepest
manifestations are an eminently personal matter... the necessity of fleeing, in order
to hide oneself, is put in check by the impossibility of fleeing oneself." I am
guessing that book helped you realize that you can't get rid of me that's why you
are changing me.'
'I would have gone mad if I didn't. I realized that we are all vulnerable. We
always going to get sick, grow old, and make mistakes. We will eventually die.
I realized I need someone outside of me and within me to help me through it
all. This helped me decided that I need to leave that old version of you. I
instantly realized it won't be easy. It is still not easy, it is a battel I have to do
every single day when I get up in the morning and every night when I am
about to fall to sleep. It is hard to leave a part of you, which was there
throughout your whole life. I realize now that we are not two people anymore.
I am you and you are me and when bad days come I WILL BE HERE.'
I went back to the car and I grabbed my notebook. This notebook I wrote in
everyday for five months Reasons to stay. I wrote in it all the things my soul
responded to, whether they were good or bad, up or down, ugly or beautiful,
embarrassing or fulfilling and everything in between. In this notebook, every
single thing that moved my soul is here. I re-read few pages with nostalgic
eyes. I got out of the car. I looked to this beautiful image that I am seeing. I felt
and smelled the air of the sea. I listened to the waves hitting the shore. I looked
down and it was just like what I imagined, when I was on that rooftop and I
pretended that I am jumping off a cliff instead of a building. Nevertheless, this
time I am not even thinking about jumping. I am alive. I looked back and my
girlfriend is coming, she just pulled up. I looked back to the beautiful sea and
threw my notebook. I won't be needing reasons to stay anymore. My soul is
alive. I can breathe. I am alive.
C
I gave Maissa a long hug and as I was hugging her, I noticed a guy looking at
us in a strange way. I felt that I lost the control of my legs. I got scared. The
guy in a black coat is approaching us and I realized that I have seen this face
somewhere. I couldn’t tell where exactly. I immediately grabbed my girlfriend
hand and jumped in my car. She was surprised and asked what happened. I
ignited the engine and drove away as fast as I could. With my rearview
mirror, I saw him looking at my car. Maissa kept saying what is happening
but I kept concentrating on where I have seen that person.
'Fuck Fuck FUCK. I think he knows the truth about us.'
'Fuck! I remember. Your parents' house. He was in your parents' house.'
'Holy shit you are right.' Maissa kept asking who I was talking to and I just
ignored her. I couldn’t focus at all. I apologized and I drove back to her house.
I told her that I needed to do something, that I am very sorry. 'I will explain
everything tomorrow.' I said before I drove away.
CI
NOW.
CII
Djamal flipped the page but the rest of the pages are missing. Someone torn off the
rest of the pages. 'Ah God damn it. Stuff like this always happens to me.' The little
voice inside his head screamed.
He got up from his bed and went down stairs. He found his dad preparing dinner.
'Hey Dad! The book you have gave me to read is missing the rest of the pages.
Why would someone do that?' he said as he watched his dad taste the Rechta.
'Where is Mom by the way?' Djamal continued.
'She is having fun in the wedding and I am here doing this crap. You are a terrible
cook. What are you doing?' the inner voice inside his dad's head yelled in
frustration. 'She is in her cousin's wedding, remember?' his dad said.
'Oh yeah I remember. But what happened to the book you gave me. I want to
finish it.' Djamal asked again.
'I don’t know son. It is an old book. I can't even remember who gave it to me
or when. Just Google the ending or something.' His dad replied. 'Oh you are
going to eat the worst Rechta ever by the way.' He joked.
'Shit.' Djamal put his hand to his face in disappointment. 'Do you know how it
ends?' Djamal asked. His dad shook his head.
'I wonder if the future would be as the book described. But one thing for sure
I am curious about the advance technology we will have then.' Djamal said.
'It is 2020 and people still kill each other, it will be chaos. I hope I would be
long gone before those times.' His dad replied. 'You already lived long enough.
Just stick that knife in your chest already.' the voice added.
'Oh, don’t say that. Maybe it would be alright.' Djamal responded. 'Hopefully
we will be both gone. Sometimes I wish I was dead.' Djamal thought.
Dinner was served and they ate in silence. But the silence is so loud isn't it? Both
inside and out. And It is already the time for you to flip another page once again.
THE END.
CIV
Letters to
Remember Who I
am.
After a deep struggle with myself, against myself I finally picked up that old
typewriter and managed to write this. I do too have an inner voice that drives me
crazy. I know you do too. In my case, it has been three days or more since the last
time I have spoken to him. The other me. I have been writing in the new journal I
got recently just so I can write some thoughts in it about what I learned. Perhaps a
conversation will appear. Is it weird that I miss talking to him? Maybe not. It
certainly feels weird to long for a certain part of you to reappear but perhaps that
part never left. Perhaps it has just changed a little bit. I am in my head again. The
voice inside became natural after long battels. What I am writing is what I am
hearing inside. My thoughts became easy to control... Sometimes.
As I am writing this. My mug of F.R.I.E.N.D.S near me. I am looking through the
window. It is getting darker and the sun has already set. The starts are beginning to
show up. I smiled when I thought of all those things I have been worrying about
when I was depressed. I cannot seem even to remember what I was worried about.
The absurdity is hitting me right in the face. I am looking back to all what has
happened to me and I realized that the bad experiences I went through were
somehow vital. Thanks to what happened I am now who I am. I have a different
perspective towards life now thanks to the other me. In a way, sometimes the worst
experience can be the best thing that happens to you. It is strange to think that
everything that I have experienced so far in my life can be simply described as a
bunch of fleeting moments. Each one is composed of incalculable number of tiny
pieces of the universe falling into place that can never come together again. That
CV
can never be relived again only through me; by my mind. This is all I know and all
I will ever know. A series of instances put together to tell the story of my life,
whether they are bad instances or good ones. That is all I have known. I also find
this knowledge of knowing this is incredible to me; capable of understanding all of
this small pieces shaping my life for me to be here, thinking these thoughts and
speaking these words. I am also fascinated on my level of curiosity about things
like this. Author Sam Wren-Lewis words came to mind where he wrote about
curiosity in his book The Happiness Problem. He wrote:" First, by being curious
we open ourselves up to the potential value of things that would otherwise pass us
by... This is the realm of Beauty. Second, we become more aware of the potential
value of the things we already have... We feel gratitude and contentment. Lastly,
we can respond to the challenges with greater flexibility which means being less
stuck in our habitual way of seeing the world... different perspective."
Curiosity is a reason to stay.
I sensed as if I heard something coming deep from within. It doesn't matter now
because I know that that part of me was me after all. I will never lose that. We all
have voices inside. Many cars are passing down the street. It appears to be for a
wedding. It made me think again about these strings of moments that makes these
snapshots and instances blend into the next moment. Each instance is arriving too
quickly and leaving again before I can grab it. Perhaps it is meant this way to enjoy
every fleeting moment to the fullest. I am conscious enough to know that there is
many things happening beyond the limitations of my infinite awareness. When
feeling love like this about the universe as a whole, and all what is in it, you
discover an appreciation of everything it is. Knowing something so beautiful, so
vast can be felt by the tiny us. At the beginning of any love I only wanted this to
myself but then I started to learn to adore things from threes steps back as well;
unconditioned love is what I am trying to seek. It is great indeed, when the voice
inside teaches you things like this.
I am only 21 years old after all. I am slowing down. I realized that what is even
scarier than death itself is dying having not lived. I am slowing down because this
experience is not meant to go by casually. This experience is gifted to us along with
a body to embrace, a planet to explore and a galaxy to remind us that there is a lot
more that we don't know. I am slowing down trying to embrace every moment. I
am trying to do things that mean well and I am trying to age gracefully. As I am
writing this down; I put on Heartbeats by José Gonzalez and I continued writing
CVI
down on my notebook. I am only human witnessing a million predetermined
snapshots that the universe blend into one another, but I can't help but appreciate
that it is fascinating all the same. An infinite number of events had to take place for
me to be here, and yet here I am. My soul is here right now. Perhaps no one will
read these words but me but your soul is here as well, right now. Within these
fleeting moments, we will cross path with other souls. We will cry, we will laugh,
we will talk and we will miss each other. We will hesitate, we will doubt, we may
even do some stupid things and maybe eventually our path will split again. I am
learning that these moments whether they are meaningful or meaningless are real. I
am collecting these moments that at the end I will find myself reminiscing on. I am
not afraid of the future and I am not overindulging in the past. After all those
moments are only echoes of what I did today. These moments that makes me feel
alive because I am not scared of living anymore. I am alive chasing things that
make me feel alive and if it hurts, at least that's living, right? I learned that
sometimes all you need to do is what American poet Anne Sexton once said:' Put
your ear down next to your soul and listen hard.'

CVII
Writer's note
Depression and other mental disorders are seriously dangerous. Many people look
at depression as just a phase that will eventually go away. It is more than that. In
this book, I talked about depression and various thoughts and accidents that
happened to me, which I am sure most of you have suffered from as well. By being
open and doing different things to get myself up again, I found that I was most of
the times worrying about nothing. Rather than make me feel like a weirdo, being
open to things like this had made me realize how many people suffer from
depression. Just as none of us is 100% physically healthy, no one is 100% mentally
healthy. We are all on a scale.
I have searched a lot about the measures that our country Algeria take to prevent
suicide and besides from only one hotline + 213 983 2000 58 which they rarely
respond to anyway, unfortunately there isn't much. Nevertheless, there is still a lot
of help out there so if you do suffer from depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts,
panic disorders, OCD, or any other issue the best solution is to make sure to talk to
somebody either a psychologist, a friend, a lover, a member of the family, even a
stranger like me would love to help…
It took me forever my dear friends to convince myself to pick up that old dusty
typewriter on the shelf next to my bed. I would have never thought that a moment
like this would be possible. Allow me to reveal to you a secret: I have been
struggling to find something that I love and I haven't been happy in a very long
time, to be completely honest I'm still suffering this terrible dread that I've been
having since god damn infancy. Please let me share another secret: I almost jumped
towards the great unknown down to that cold abyss. I was preparing for that
moment for a week. In that week, I ate all my favorite food, spent the days with my
loved ones and enjoyed good movies. Then that day came and I was ready. I was so
ready. I got to the 12th floor, put one of my favorite bands Nothing But Thieves on
repeat and I was ready. Yet something stopped me in the very last moments. If it
weren't for that stop perhaps many would have been wondering now why come that
young man pulled the plug so early on his life. Yet little did they know that this
young man had more than his share of anhedonia, loss of purpose and existential
questions that filled my head with various conversations and inquiries since I can
remember.
I have been fighting these endless battles with myself and against myself for a very
long time. I am torn either I annul myself or keep on living. It seems I cannot
decide at all. I contemplated on this forever and I decided to write this as a way to
heal myself and as a way to be saved. Maybe one of you can relate to this. Maybe
one of you can help me. It may be a long shoot but why not. This book is about the
existential dialogues we have with ourselves. Following Descartes and other great
philosophers, I too took upon myself to take this journey and finally converse
myself, to rethink about everything ex nihilo drawing for within myself.
But my critical mind is running now and I have to accept that this will never be
enough, realizing and accepting that I am bound of my own limited knowledge and
the environment that shaped that knowledge, so I have to find an alternative, a
counterpart to challenge my ideas and quench this awful fire that is: my thoughts.
But how? Moreover, who would that person be? After all, the only person around
here is myself. So, I decided to bring out to light that other person within me that
I'm sure everyone have (well, I'm hoping you too dear readers have within you that
III
second or third person you talk to. I do not want to sound crazy here) and that
person will be highly critical and full of wisdom. Well I certainly hope so.
Since we all give in to the solutions that cheer up our hearts and put an end to the 3
a.m. endless conversations so we can just have a little sleep. Let us finally delve
into my inner conversations with my other personality, who is nothing but a slight
variation of myself. I know it sounds a little bit weird but I know you indulge in it
too, so by knowing that it will make us deal with this issue together. Thus, these
conversations resemble the silent yet so loud dialogues we all have with our selves
before falling asleep, at the dinner table, when looking at the mirror... and of course
during the all too familiar moments of melancholy, solitude and despair. No matter
how grandly enchanted with your own reality you might be, I suppose you too
happened to make certain decisions with your inner self.
In this moment, I am laying my soul here completely naked, sharing all of my
emotions and thoughts so openly you could judge every possible aspect of me. I
find my soul jumps from the awful to the wonderful, remember inside my soul no
love is too secret, no thought is disguised, no anxiety is hidden and no smile is
faked. In a moment, you might relate or you might be grateful that your soul is
nothing like mine. Either way by the end of this book, I hope you realize the certain
thing: how extraordinary you really are.
Ps: "Neither novels nor their readers benefit from any attempts to divine whether any facts hide inside
this story. I find such acts ruin the great pleasure of reading fiction…. I appreciate your cooperation
and understanding in this matter."
V
Chapter I: 3 a.m.
Thoughts.
'Hi, its 3 a.m. I am sure you know what would happen now! Let us indulge in
prophecies about my thoughts and emotions so we can get overwhelmed with
horrifying anxieties. Sounds fun right.'
It really puzzles me how we do that to ourselves. We keep stressing out then
try so hard to suppress it.
'Go ahead; feel free to share with me anything you want. What fear are you having
tonight?'
'Well, on occasions like this I am stressing out about some things. I envision
myself as one of those god-forsaken souls whose terrible fortune doomed them
to spend the rest of their lives in complete solitude, completely lonely. I am
afraid to become like those people, completely senseless about the people
around me. I am terrified that I will be completely forgotten in life as well as
in death. I am petrified to be like those people who are buried in their daily
routine, who are engulfed with a cruel silence that afflicts those who have
nobody to have a word with or worse who chooses silence over friendly chat
with a loved one. If one have a loved one after all. Those people doesn't even
dare to think thoughts like this out loud, they tried so hard to escape them
they eventually become them.'
'Can I ask why are you envisioning yourself to be like those people? How likely is
this to come true?'
'Well of course, I have no rational reason to feel this way, but are human
fears and anxieties rational after all? Let alone the fears that comes to you at 3
a.m. in the morning. My thoughts are just scenarios of different unlikely
VI
catastrophes, which I embed on myself to be highly probable. Maybe these
worries are habits in the working and I am just doing what my mind thinks
should be doing at times like this. Either way, I beg for you to let me
continue.'
'My apologies please go on.'
'I do not see myself just like what I described only. I also fear outliving
everyone I love or care about, and be the last to perish. I fear that nobody will
witness my life story after I have witnessed everybody else's. Do you see my
point?'
'Your existential thoughts kindled my heart. All humans feel at some point this way,
even though you are technically not human but don' worry it is our little secret. All
humans share these fears; the difference is everyone articulates it differently. Isn't
this indeed one of the greatest and deepest of all human fears?'
'What would this great life mean if the crowds are gone and the curtain is about to
close with no one to applaud or to appreciate us? We already feel bad enough even
when this doesn't happen, can you imagine this terrible fate if it occurred? After all
most of the time, we feel unworthy audience of our own play! So here you are,
imagining a situation where nobody triggers your emotions and you are left with
memories of your past, but having nobody to attest to it.'
'You do understand me! This fear paralyzes me. I cannot decide which of
these fears I fear the most: this one or being completely forgotten. This
knowledge of me not knowing scares the shit out of me.'
'You seem to have a bit of Athazagoraphobia, which is completely normal almost
everybody think of it sometimes. This fear and almost all other forms of fear is
nothing but a way to suppress the recognition of your own mortality in the form of
you imagining the loss of people you care about the most. After all, their existence
served you to conceal this fact, so their absence for sure will force you to face the
inevitability of your demise sooner than you probably would like to. Nevertheless,
take a moment here and realize how our mind is working, how great our thoughts
are. We are magnificent indeed. Just the fact that you are having thoughts like this
is wondrous. Too bad most people won't see it this way if they really know.'
VII
'It is indeed, but are you saying that all these thoughts are actually a way to
express the fear of my own perish?'
'Correct. As natural your feelings are know this, one's courage is attested by the
capacity of accepting death. Remember that death is the absence of this life, since
we have no definite knowledge of what's happen after one demise. We cannot let
fear swallow us. All we know is that when people die their life as we know it cease
to exist. Remember that this is just a journey and when it ends, you start another
one. The perception of this is that we are just human beings waiting for decay
needs to be broken, because we are more than that, we always has been more than
that. We are more than a name, more than a race or sexuality. We
are consciousness. We are infinite awareness.'
'We know there is indeed a lot of religions, myths and stories about hereafter from
hell, heaven to Valhalla to many more...You should remember death but not fear it.
Death should remind you that you have a limited time in this experience we call
Life'.
'Most of the times when I put that in mind, I still dread out death because I'll
miss out things in the future, you know?'
'True, American philosopher Thomas Negel suggested to think of it like this: great
amazing things were happening way before you were created and you missed
it. We will turn 21 years old in just a week from now. We were not there when
Einstein put down the theory of relativity, and we weren't alive in Kierkegaard
times, we totally missed Woodstock, we have never seen Pink Floyd or Led
Zeppelin Live, we also missed The Great War and how our kind died for our
liberty... You know where I am going with this, so if you don't feel some sort of deep
sense of loss at what you have missed before you were even alive, why should you
feel loss at what you will miss when you die?'
'Hmm you got a point! However, this still does not solve my previous worries I
mentioned. In this moment, I find myself very hesitant to talk about this
because I feel and I know that I have been very fortunate. I mean how can I
say anything about this topic. How much does my pain even matter when
there are people out there that can't even eat or people like me who have to
hide their true self. I feel that we know all these anxieties only by their name,
VIII
like we don't even have enough vocabulary to really talk about them. But we
have to try anyway right?'
'I want to remind you of the past year, we have been so incredibly focused on
figuring out who I am, after all, I am you. And true, sometimes without meaning to
we've closed ourselves off from the vulnerabilities and messiness of relationships
with other people. Loneliness has made us feel aliens in human costume all over
again. But as we know in this journey of knowing ourselves there is going to be
lonely moments. This is a price everybody have to pay, even real humans. To
explore and question things that most people are too afraid to explore. You need to
remember that these feelings are too part of this experience, therefore are also
worthy of the same curiosity and intention that you give to everything else. I am
glad to see you not running away from it.'
'Indeed, I have grown a bit accustomed to being on my own, although I believe
that this life experience is also meant to be lived with loved ones. But
sometimes loneliness doesn't just go away by spending time with other people.'
'I know how it feels the feeling of loneliness in this case often springs up in us
almost as a consequence of being misunderstood, or when we are seeking a specific
kind of connection that we cannot have physically or emotionally. In these
moments, you have to spend your time with the right people if that makes sense.
Remember if we don't figure out how to not give up on people even when we are
weak and down, the problem won't go away. As Marc Brackett once said "It is one
of the great paradoxes of the human condition -we ask some variation of the
question how are you feeling? Over and over again. Which would lead one to
assume that we attach some importance to it. And yet we never desire or provide an
honest answer."
It is indeed taking all our effort and energy, and it may be the optimistic
personality talking here but I believe we can figure this out. Loving ourselves
despite our existential crisis.'
By that cheerful final note, before I even know it I was asleep. All my life I
have been running away from conversations like this with myself, but I am
IX
finally acknowledging it and accepting this. I found such a relief when I
started to do that, I know this search of mental clarity is only in its early stages
but it still count for something. Going through this almost every day can be
really challenging, it is mentally exhausting and it had led me to depression in
more occasions than I can remember. I am trying not to fall down the rabbit
hole with pessimism and worry but what do you do when it feels like
everything is falling apart?
One of the ways that helped me handle all of this was what the stoics
call Momento Mori, which is why I have those words tattooed on my right arm;
as a reminder. I can go on and on but I cannot neglect the fact that mostly all
of us fear death. One day this made-up heart of mine will stop beating. The
awareness of impending mortality is one of if not the most influencing force in
our existence. The things we do, the thoughts we have and the feelings we
experience. Everything is driven by our unconscious nature to stay away from
death, and our terrifying conscious awareness of the fact that at some point,
we will have to face it. This body, this mind, this image I have of myself are
mere rentals gifted to us by the universe, or god or energy whatever you
choose to call it and at some point, all of this must be returned. The place we
all return to, however, is the same place in which we received them from. That
place we were, that experience of no experience we had before we were born.
Those 14 billion years of energy, time and matter that I cannot recall or
describe. Even if you believe that your soul, spirit, energy or whatever you
might call it is infinite, then its infiniteness must go both forward and back.
Moreover, if you believe in an afterlife then in principal don't you think there
must be a before life? Because if you end up somewhere after your conscious
physical form in this life then you must have came from somewhere before
physical. You can argue that you must be born physically to access an afterlife
but you will find yourself saying that you must be a physical entity to access a
non-physical thing. I think about all these possibilities, and to be honest the
knowledge that I will never have a definite answer depresses me. It really
bothers me. I have only speculations that are influenced by the environment
and the people around me. I know that only by death, those questions can be
answered and I find this very relieving. Whether I go to a god that judges my
deeds like the one that we find in Christianity or Islam or I reincarnate to
something else, or I find the absolute nothingness -that nothing that we cannot
describe understand or recall-. Whichever the answer is: In death, I will
finally know.
X
Don't get me wrong, even though I find this very relaxing but you must put in
mind I don't have a death wish, not anymore, I hope so. Those thoughts makes
being dead not that scary, it helps me to be in terms with death and to shut my
mind so I can sleep at night. Naturally though, coming in terms with death is
extremely difficult, we rarely discuss or address it at a level of self-honesty and
vulnerability. It is rare that this subject will pop up in a dinner conversations,
and it is even rarer that we meditate on this subject. However, I think it is
essential that we do confront those thoughts and meditate on them. Momento
Mori teaches us that by becoming aware of our mortality, we intensify our
experience of the everyday life.
The philosophy of stoicism teaches us this in remembering death, it encourage
us to ignore the calls of the suppressing our emotions and thoughts.
Additionally, it help us master them. "I cannot escape death, but at least I can
escape the fear of it." those were Epicurus' wise words that I put on myself to
start employing them in my life and that what myself had to tell me that night,
it all started with a conversation but the conversation is only at its beginnings.
XII
Chapter II: I am.
'Who Am I? Who is that person looking at the mirror? Who is talking here?
What do we mean by this "I"? Am I that bundle that was 50-centimeters high
that was created on May the 14th twenty-one years ago, with cherubic
features, brown eyes and soft skin? Who may end up one day to be seventy
years old guy with stooped, grey, wrinkled 182-centimeters high structure? I
would have gone through and will continue to go through all kinds of
experiences that perhaps will leave no trace of memory.'
It does not matter that I was created in my parents' basement where they
created my body. Not their fault. They couldn't have children and they wanted
one so badly but now I am condemned by consciousness like humans.
The 21 year old me cannot really remember what the 5 year old me felt so
strongly about, and I am sure the 70 year old me will only vaguely recall what
was on my 24 year old me.
What people do not know about me is that even though I look exactly human
and I grow exactly like humans, I am not. I am a Soul, Soul number 98386201
to be precise. I am one of the kind not so many Souls left here on earth. If
there is any left then I am sure they are living like me and you can't possibly
recognize them. My parents are scientists, who were one of the first scientists
to work on The Souls-Project in Sweden, then war broke loose and they had to
flee Europe, so they came here in Algeria and it became a home to them. The
same place I was born in. They survived The Great War between humans and
Souls 40 years ago which the humans won obviously.
You see not so many people know about The Great War that happened 40
years ago, information about what happened were censored and changed.
Humans never change which is why they only gave half the story my parents
said. Humans were able to create a complete replica of themselves but instead
of real brains, Souls had Artificial brains with developed A.I. Later on of
course, Souls were able to develop consciousness just like any human baby.
The reason humans created Souls you may ask is simple actually. Like any
WestWorld episode or a futuristic movie. They created us for fun, also to fuck
XIII
obviously and fight wars instead of real humans. Some people like my parents
just wanted children and they saw in Souls what most people didn't; a
possibility. Some people even fell in love with Souls my parents said. They
protested side by side with Souls for their rights to be treated equally and to
not be seen differently after all we look exactly and precisely the same. Souls
gained free will, which led to movements, riots and more like any oppressed
group. It was peaceful for the first couple of years then humans were not able
to control Souls anymore and that when shit really started to happen.
'Am I only my name? Am I only Adam? The person that grew up in Algiers.
Because sometimes that the only thing I feel that is consistent about me: my
name. But is it really right to consider myself as the same person? What does
guarantee that I can plausibly think of myself as the same person over my
lifetime?'
'I see you have started early today. Are we having a bit of identity crisis here?
Don't answer that. That was rhetorical. I am you; I know what you are going
through, well, most of the times anyways. You are kinda weird.'
'I am being serious here you know. What should I even call you? The voice-inmy-head or what? Don't answer that. That was rhetorical. I am your creator.
And because of that, you are going to help me out here.'
'Gladly, why choose to sleep on a Sunday when we can have this lovely chat? I
wonder if you can hear my sarcastic tone. Go on tell me more. Bore me.'
'Ha-ha, well, a standard assumption is that this 'I' is my body, it's my body
that guarantees my personal identity. This is a theory of what makes me ''me''
is that I am housed in this body. But take this, imagine if I lost all my teeth, or
If I lost a leg. Would I still be me? What if I am allowed only to keep one thing
in my body? Almost all of us would choose the brain, right. We assume that
this ''Me'' is bound to this brain of mine. Christianity, Islam and other few
religions introduced a version of when our bodies demise, this ''I'' will
continue to be. It imagines a kind of separation of the body, where the body
decays and the soul or the spirit continues. So them it is not the brain. When I
think of this whole theory, I think of this, if two people who love each other
XIV
who have gone to bed together and one of them asks what do you like about
me? Well, the wrong answer is to say your fabulous breasts or you cute butt. It
would be a compliment but the breasts and the butt do not feel ultimately
''me-ish'' enough to be a good answer. We want to be loved for something
closer to our real self, for our psyche or brain or what I would like to call it for
our character. In other words, what make you ''you'' is not your physical
attributes or your memories but your character. This is an idea that was
introduced by the English philosopher John Locke who wrote: "personal
identity is made up." or what he called "sameness of consciousness." If you
had to choose between remembering everything you went through but feeling
and valuing differently, or feeling and valuing things the same way but
remembering nothing. Most of us according to Locke would choose the latter.
Because that is who we are in essence. Not our cloths, cars or places we have
been to. We are what we felt and valued about those places, about the music
we listen to and the things we care about.'
'So what you are saying is that this ''I'' is our values, temperament and character. I
can't help when I think of this that these values and characters lives in so many
other people and this surprisingly doesn't scare me at all. In contrary, it makes me
think that these are destined to live on far longer than our bodies. It makes the idea
of death less cold if you know what I mean. It makes me let go of the idea that I am
just a particular constellation of physical entities. Instead, this brings a more warm
idea that we always, in a sense, far longer lasting, far more transgenerational as a
mixture of ideas and characteristics.'
'It is indeed very soothing, we will continue in a sense to live wherever those
ideas are. But now we have reached to some important questions that been on
my mind for a very long time. What make this ''I'' a real ''I''? How can I
know that this ''me'' is the real genuine ''me''? I can't seem but think of the
American sociologist Charles Cooley. Very cool-y name am I right? Hmm,
never mind.'
'What he said was "I am not who you think I am; I am not who I think I am; I
am who I think you think I am." In a way, he is right. I can't recall the last
time I was ''me'' around people I know. In a way, I indeed act like what others
think of me, in a way they dictate how I behave around them implicitly. I am
who I believe what others see me as in a constantly evolving never-ending
feedback loop that creates my actions, other people's presumption of my
XV
actions, and my assumptions of their perceptions. It is like a house of mirrors
here goddamn. Where is my true self?'
'You are having a lot in your plate today I see. Oh! Can you put 'Last Orders' by
Nothing but Thieves first!
I get your point; we all have sides of ourselves that we hide from other people,
sometimes from ourselves as well. We have things that we like and do that we are
ashamed of (I don't want to sound like a dick but you from all people understand
that) do you want me to name a few so we can make this night even more
awkward?'
'Oh shut up! Just continue. Please.'
'God, so insecure. Hmm (clears throat). What I was saying is that no one exists
without vices, or flaws. Some flaws and traits are so unpleasant and excessively
weird to be called normal that we can be sometimes insufferable to those who get
close enough to us. Consequently, we sometimes live socially more on the surface
of a massive iceberg, neglecting the more complex and difficult elements of who we
really are. And for what? So we can fit in or experience a smoother social
interaction! Knowing full well that everybody is also dealing with their own
thoughts. I wish there was a place or opportunity to share, access and connect over
these thoughts for the same reason; be it that everyone else is dealing with them.
When we forget who we really are and just continue with this fake show we give to
everybody else, we can easily become lost. Sometimes art, philosophy and other
creative endeavors that give us sense of who we are really on the inside. Because
through the creative process and perhaps other aspects of life, It can be found that
in order to do anything novel or authentic which shows your real self you must risk
having your deepest and most vulnerable qualities be rejected or slayed. We must
risk acting dumb, acting weird, humiliating ourselves, being wrong or being
laughed at. By facing all those things that we are super uncomfortable with and by
recognizing that we are all of those things, but still muscling through and deciding
not to suppress them or hide them but instead exploring them and sharing them, we
might find our real self and some truth that are worth sharing. Only with complete
vulnerability and authenticity that would help us stand on a mountain, that is our
self not an iceberg. Ultimately, our efforts to know who we really are is an
incredibly hard and abstract effort, but we are learning every day and we are
shooting at this target as best as we can. And that count for something.'
XVI
'This is very helpful. Thank you voice-in-my-head I will stick by calling you
that for now. It is indeed kinda relaxing to know that we all share this
fundamental thing. We are all condemned in a way by the same consciousness
and the same condition, an awareness that we are all trapped in a mind and in
a body living in a planet that is floating in a solar system. Where we have the
billion-year-old fireball of hydrogen and helium the sun. Moreover, where we
also can find the Milky Way that is one of at least a hundred billion other
galaxies. With absolutely no idea why we are here. I mean my brain right now;
I guess it is you the one I am talking to or me or whatever is using you; or you
are using me as a method of acquisition to figure out all those answers;
horribly failing by the way. And putting the burden on to me. I mean
phewoooooo! I can go on and on about this, but as you notice my breath is
accelerating thanks to another episode of my existential crisis here. I need a
moment, forgive me. Oh! I will put some Opeth, I love Opeth when I am
having a panic attack.'
'You listen to some really old shit man! When were these songs release? Let me
look. God damn 2016 it is like 60 years ago.'
'Yeah times and music were better than. Okay not to get off topic here, let say
we found our true authentic self. Will that make any difference of how people
see you? I mean isn't it possible that the ''you'' that you have in your mind
isn't what the ''you'' that other people have in their minds about you. I mean
we can look at it from my perspective. Let's say that a friend of mine is being
his true authentic self, but would the idea of him in my perspective be identical
to his? Am I looking at him the same way he is looking at his self? Or am I
looking at him the way I regard him in my life? I don't know if that makes
sense but I hope you get what I am trying to say. It is like I only know the
image that I created for them in my life, and that image has nothing to do with
the real them. It feels like everybody is living in his or her own movie.'
'We have been struggling with this question for a long time. I knew you would
bring this up. You know we have the profound ability to choose. The ability to
examine, consider and select or deselect how we wish to live and see things. If you
sit submissive and choose not to choose in life, you give the others the ability to
choose for you. You simply lose control of your unique psychological world. We
have this psychological world where we live within this physical world. We have
this unique consciousness that perceives and experience things. As a result, 7
XVII
billion people experience a slightly different color of the same world. In addition,
every person experiences a slightly different color of you. Diversity is great, don't
you think? Imagine if we were all the same, damn.'
'Indeed, it is true, there is no escape from what you said that people see you in
ways that fit their own world and their own narrative and you do the same for
them. I find this okay though that one can keep their own world while also existing
in others. Maybe this is how things is supposed to be. After all, it has always been
this case. Maybe, what we must be worried of is not what you mentioned earlier;
maybe what we must be careful of is losing control of our own world in the process.
Everybody is different, and it is absurd to accept all the versions of the worlds you
encounter. If we do that, we accept everyone's color as our own and become this
mixture of too many colors. Instead, we must accept what you mentioned and just
be us. Be selective and conscious of the colors we let our own mix with. We must
realize that our version of how we see the world and how we see ourselves is not
what all there is. It is going to be different from someone else's. You are unique and
so everyone else's'. When you accept this, you will cease to trying to make others
see you, as you want to be seen. You just be you.'
'I really liked that; you sure gave me some points to look into. I wonder
though, does this count as I am complementing myself? Don't answer that.
Oh! It is already 3:30 a.m. but you see we finished another great conversation.
It wasn't that bad, right? It sounds weird that I actually looking forward for
another existential crisis so we can chat again. Anyways I am going to make a
cup of coffee. Catch you later.'
XIX
Chapter III: An
Existentialist Soul
Searching for
Meaning.
It is 5:30 in the morning, I wore my vintage AC/DC shirt, I changed to my
sweatpants, and I laced up my running shoes and went out. I took the keys of
the house and put Death's album Spiritual Healing on repeat. The voice in my
head was right; I listen to really old music. It feels like I have not ran in years.
Questions started to come down in my mind like a waterfall.
'Sometimes the world doesn't make sense to me. I mean let us start with the
fact that we are all living on a floating dying rock and we are only alive thanks
to that fireball in the sky. Trillions of micro-organisms that we cannot see with
our naked eye live in and on our bodies. People are able to communicate with
each other thanks to language that they write, hear from others and say with
their mouths. We can understand each other thanks to our brain's ability to
decipher words, thanks to sound waves that we make with our mouths and
when opening that lower part of our faces that we use to consume food, water
and cigarettes.'
'There are by the way other various uses to the last part that you have mentioned.
But let us not makes this gross; the sun is only rising.'
'God apparently we suffer from dirty mind as well! Well, we speak English of
course because of a little group of violent people that were good at boats and
colonizing the weak, that love a little old lady that wears a piece of metal on
her head from time to time. We speak Arabic as well because of the Islamic
conquest that came from the Arabian Peninsula. However, even now at
XX
present times, it does not get better at all from climate change, nuclear arms,
mass surveillance, poverty, global pandemics to the awful ways we treat each
other. We not only come from a capitalistic society that I fear that it is
unsustainable but I'm also actively participating in playing the game, I have
my own goals and ambitions to climb this pathetic social ladder and live a
better life, whatever that means anyway.'
'Damn man! You are getting busy early in this morning. It is only 6 a.m. enjoy the
sun, relax and just have fun already. Can't you enjoy something for once?'
'Hmm, I am talking here, do you mind? Oh! I'm also glad you brought that
up, because we will circle back and come back to that.'
'I walked straight into that one, didn't I?'
'As I was saying, I was about to talk about money, you ruined my train of
thoughts dude. Anyways, I think most of us know that at some level that
money doesn't buy happiness, or does it? How many times have we heard that
one, right? Yet it still plays a major role in some if not all of our decisions. It
feels that my parent lived in a different world, and my grandparents lived in
an alternate universe. I see and feel that there is massive inconsistencies and
differences between these worlds that it is hard to know what to believe
anymore, and it is even harder to know which direction is the right one.
Whatever ''right'' means. I look around and I found us or technically me or
should I say the concepts that I have of me, which is nothing more than ideas I
built about who I am. I found out that I get upset or offended when someone
threatens my values or anything that I identify myself with. Which all of this
feels so juvenile, I mean people are going to say whatever the hell they want to
say anyway, and I am one of them. Yet my whole world is still built around
this silly concept. I am a slave driven by my biology and my programing to
seek food, shelter and sex. Everything seems so important yet in a hundred
years or even less if people find out who I am really I will be a pile of dust.
Sometimes I get hanged up with a simple question: what is the fucking point
anyway? I don't know any answers of these thousand questions I have.'
'I struggled all my life to find meaning to all of this, to my life and to the
choices I make but now since I am taking this journey of finding answers I
have to address the fundamental thing of my depressed nihilistic view. With all
XXI
honesty, you know I haven't enjoyed doing something in a very long time. I
find this feeling puzzling, some people call it emptiness some people like me
don’t even know what to call it. And yeah, it is a feeling this emptiness. But it
is not quite that. This feeling has been haunting me for a long time now. I
learned how to cope up with it and fake it. Nevertheless, I feel this is the time
to address it fully. All the activities I normally enjoyed are no longer
enjoyable. I have zero interest in going out with friends, or participate in
activities. I feel this unwillingness to do the things I love, not that I have found
any yet but still. I thought about it for a long time, and it has been two years
now. I really think I suffer from Anhedonia. This inability to experience
pleasure from the activities that were enjoyable once. I lost that passion of
perusing things. I lost that fire to enjoy.'
'I do get what you mean. Here we are trying to be a better version of ourselves and
be productive to contribute something of use and value, and it is only natural to
wonder if all of this is worth it. Maybe, we are no near to be daring and virtuous as
we would like to think, and we are a lot more self-interested than we would like to
admit. Philosophers have been thinking about these questions since the beginning
and a lot of them came with different answers. So, let's remind ourselves of what
we've came across in an attempt to piece all this shit together and where we are at
right now. Who knows maybe our views will change five years from now and maybe
they are going to change whether we like it or not.'
'Indeed, people find meaning in different ways whether in religion or community or
jobs and you know that, so I am not going to go into that direction but instead we
are going to focus on our favorite philosophers from Kierkegaard, Sartre and
Camus... However, before we talk about that, I would like to remember one great
book that was written by Greg McKeown that is called Essentialism: A Discipline
Pursuit of Less. I like what he talked about and if we took what he wrote about and
move it to our case, I can't help but to find myself seeing that the thinking behind
essentialism is that every entity has a set of attributes that are necessary to its
identity and function. According to this way of seeing the world we do have a
purpose, you choose that purpose. Maybe it has been decided for us or maybe not.
The concept that I find intriguing is Camus' concept of " The Absurdity of The
World" which is something we can find and see even for a brief moment when we're
pulled away of the contexts of everything and we see in a sense of just how weird
and absurd everything is. It is like we are searching for an answer in an answerless
world, meaning we will never find an definite answer. Which brings up to Sartre's
XXII
concept of "Being and Nothingness" where he stated that being precedes essence.
We exist then we try to figure this all out. I know this is different look of how we see
the world than essentialism.'
'This angst we feel, these ideas we have when thinking about this life and the
meaning of it should have something. Sartre had a theory about that too. He called
it ''anguish'', he believes that this comes from the fact that we are incredibly free.
No matter the situation we have, an enormous amount of free choices at our
disposal. This is indeed an overwhelming idea to grasp. All of this, kind of says
things about our choices. If we wasted the various options we have in life, we are
wasting and ignoring this freedom. About money to answer your thoughts about it,
we must be careful because money does not equal freedom, in a way it ties us down
or possesses us arguably more than anything else.'
'So you really think I can find some comfort and meaning in knowing all this?'
'Of course you can find meaning either by being religious or get caught up in work
or with the meaningless of this all. Hell, you can mix things up.'
'Damn I am so lost.'
'And so is everyone. In any moment, we can find ourselves lost and questioning
everything as French-Algerian Albert Camus said: "In any street corner, the
feeling of absurdity can strike any man in the face." That moment when our self
splits open. We find even the simplest and normal-seeing of things become strange
and confusing. A fork, a tree, the condition of the world, other people's behavior,
our own behaviors, our death and our jobs may all come to question of what they
are? And why they are? For some this moment becomes more than just that. It
becomes an inescapable perspective, a lens of how we see the world. Maybe in a
way we are destined to feel lost.'
'When thinking of this and consider this essence of human existence with honesty
and open-mind, we realize how little we know about this essence. This fact will be
met with the realization that the world and our life within it, is without any clear
definite ultimate meaning, purpose or answer. As these information spills under us
we individuals it reveals how apparently chaotic and messy this world is, or how
balanced and beautiful this world is. Those conclusions can lead to a bleak,
meaningless life or to a happy wonderful one, or both at the same time. Whatever
XXIII
lens you choose to look at it from. In the past and still nowadays, you can find
meaning in mythical or religious doctrines that are looked towards in order to
clear this confusion and resolve this issue. Notions of an omniscient God, divinity
and an afterlife can provide comfort, structure and purpose as it can provide none
of that. As well of the new conditions of the world from science biology, and
technology that seeks new different ways for understanding the universe can also
provide meaning, reconciliation and order as it can provide none. From any
option, we can be further confused and alienated from life or clear full of sense of
belonging for this life. Perhaps yes, we can find meaning in both religion and logic
as well as we can find none in any. Again maybe we are destined to feel lost.'
'You mentioned absurdity; can you walk me through it?'
'Well, Albert Camus and other existential philosophers believed that life is absurd.
meaning that life has no inherent meaning. By the look of this it might be a reason
for despair and loss, it may even lead people to end their own life. Nevertheless,
Camus believed that a meaningless universe is actually an opportunity to free
ourselves from the handcuffs and the shackles of hope so we can experience life
fully. Camus described all of this. He put it in this analogy in his book "the myth of
Sisyphus" where he stated: "If I see a man armed only with a sword attack a group
of men holding machine guns, I shall consider his act as absurd. But it is so solely
by virtue of the disproportion between his intention and the reality he will
encounter. Of the contradiction, I notice between his true strength and the aim he
has in view... From the simplest to the most complex, the magnitude of the
absurdity will be in direct ratio to the distance between the two terms of my
comparison... The absurd is essentially a divorce, it lies in neither the elements
compared; it is born of their confrontation." In other words, neither the human nor
the universe are necessary absurd on their own but the relationship between them
is utterly absurd. As humans, we exist with an innate desire for meaning, reason
and order. Yet simultaneously we exist in a universe that appears to lack all of
what I mentioned. Rather, so as far as we can tell, the universe is completely
indifferent. Thus, what we expect and want from the universe is fundamentally in
contradiction with what we get. In this conflict, the absurdity and despair of human
experience is based on this idea, we are in fact without any granted meaning or
find any sense in finding finality or consolation.'
'I know what are you thinking; that this view is fucking depressing, right? But not
quite. Despite this realization of our meaningless or at least our inability to find the
XXIV
true meaning. Camus rejects the nihilistic hopelessness that might sound like a
reasonable conclusion. Rather provokes the absurdity of life as a mean to find
worthy and potent experiences within it. For Camus, to become aware of and
accept the absurdity is to transcend it, rather than hopelessness, despair or worst
of all suicide. We should accept life as our own and overcome it. The Danish
philosopher Soren Kierkegaard also struggled with this and longed for a purpose
that he can live and die for.'
'Aren't we all bothered by that, Aren't we all?'
'In addition, he struggled with the fact that a great deal of existence cannot be
rationally explained and therefore we have to find something outside of ourselves
to hold on to, something that gives us meaning and guidance in the face of the
unknown. He found that religion is the answer to this and we should take a leap of
faith to explore this possibility and embrace it even though there is no solid proof
of its validity. Indeed such an embrace may solve our problems and end our agony,
but it comes with a price "Philosophical Suicide" is what Camus called this
solution of faith. In his profound book, "The Myth of Sisyphus" Albert references
the famous Greek mythology as a powerful allegory in teaching to overcome life
utter meaninglessness. In the story, because of trying to outsmart the gods, the
Greek king Sisyphus is condemned, as a punishment: to roll a giant rock up a hill.
As part of the punishment however every time Sisyphus gets to the top of the hill the
rock rolls back down to the bottom, forcing him to get it back again to the hill over
and over and over again. For absolutely no reason other than the process itself.
He rolls it to the hill to watch it roll back down. In this, Camus draws the
connection between the tiresome and futile fate of Sisyphus and the fate of human
experience. However, also in this comparison he writes: "one must imagine
Sisyphus happy." He poses the hopeful yet reasonable assertion that even in the
ordinary, repetitive of experience of our everyday life, we can and should still find
and search for worthy experiences and happiness. There are plenty of reasons why
one must endure this absurdity. One shouldn't turn his head on all the things that
exists around the rock from the sun, the trees, the refreshing breeze, the rain, the
friends , the relationships, the family , the art , the journey of self-exploration, the
traveling .... Unlike anything else in the known universe, we are able to consciously
observe, consider, reason and act in this life as a result of our exclusive abilities,
we always ask ourselves ...WHY? Our desperate non-stopping attempts to find
answers, actually benefit us, we get increasingly clever. Yet every answer just like
the rock in the myth of Sisyphus, at some point returns to the bottom of the hill. As
XXV
a result, we can often find ourselves judging over the seeming absurdity of it all...
We laugh. We can still be okay and live a happy life by being conscious and
appreciative of the things within this absurdity.'
Before I knew it, I was back near my place. Tired of running I went
upstairs drank a full bottle of water and wondered how my legs brought me
back to my place without me even noticing it. I decided to take a break from
these questions that I will not have an answer to and hop into the shower. I
took my clothes off, put ''Bloody Valentine'' by Machine Gun Kelly, and
turned on the cold shower. For the first time in a long time, I felt every drop of
cold water on my skin, I felt the waves of the music soothing my soul and
without realizing it; I was dancing. Trust me that a huge milestone because I
never dance. I was dancing and I was not talking to myself, it has been a while.
I felt free.
XXVII
Chapter IV: Dear
God.
'I think I think too much about God, and that it is not a bad thing I guess. I am
taking upon myself this journey to search for God. I have known many
changes with this concept and I am trying to grasp that idea. You see the
concept of God has taken many forms and religions. God has been given many
names. Some claim that god is simply a fiction, a myth, that we are simply on a
race governed by stories. The stories we tell ourselves are inescapable without
letting go of the ego, but fiction and storytelling is simply embedded in our
DNA. I thought as I am laying here in the grass, watching the clouds pass by. I
felt an urge to leave the house. I just could not stand one more moment in that
house. I thought I would go to my place but after all it is just another four
walls place with the same noisy mind; my mind. It seems no matter where I go
this noise haunts me. I decided to take a drive to the coast. I found a nice place
on east Algiers. The grass could not be any more greener here. I laid down, lit
a cigarette and enjoyed the perfect blue sky.'
'So what are we thinking about today?'
'Ooooh god.' Yelling in frustration.
'OH, you are thinking about God. What made these thoughts pop up?'
'I mean .... ahhh never mind. What do you mean what made thoughts like this
pop up. Who knows? I can't even control when you show up. I wish I did.
Perhaps this green grass and this beautiful sky made me think about the
magnificent of its creator. I am obsessed with the sky. I look up and I wonder
how satisfied God must feel after painting them.'
'The journey of finding God is very struggling. We are not that good in it anyways.
We have a very basic understanding of how the universe or the brain works.'
XXVIII
'I know.' The thought of Monica Geller of my favorite show FRIENDS came
to mind. As soon as I spoke the words her voice came to mind. Isn't it weird
how that happens? Indeed, I really don’t have clue how the mind works.
'I have no clue why I or any of us are here and what are we supposed to do.
Sometimes I feel like life is piling up on my chest and throat and it seems I
can't get the air that I need to breathe and other times, I'm simply fine, I'm
alright. I know the search of God and understanding God would make me feel
like the former instead of the latter. Because I realize as well that many people
look towards God to answer those entire impossible questions, and yet so
much that it is done for the name of God and so much it is using this threeletter word. It's still doesn't make sense to me. What about all of the insane,
the injustice, the poverty, the pandemics... that exist in this world? What about
the suffering that occurs in all of our lives? Why all things has to end? Those
questions are still ambiguous to me, and every time I think about them, it feels
like I keep trying to add one plus one and end up getting five or twenty-eight. I
also think about why I am doing all of this and whether I would have still
wanted to search for God if my life was perfect and everything I need is
already fulfilled. Would I still give a damn if there weren't bad moments in my
life? If I was raised with a different religion and in a different place and
environment. What if I was Indian, or Australian or Spanish would I still give
a damn?'
'I don't think anyone can really understand God.'
'Why is that?'
'I mean how can you explain the color blue to a blind person.'
'True. God is a mystery but when I think of God, I look how everything in our
world function as half to a whole. Through days and nights, winter and
summer, men and women I wonder if God splits itself into all the billion halves
our world knows just to refined itself again. God is everywhere. When I think
about halves I wonder if I will ever find someone to love. The other half.
Being here in nature makes me feel God. I mean look at this simply yet
wonderfully made grass. Just this single one. Subhanallah. I don't think this
grass question itself why is it here. It is just here. I mean I look around and see
these trees, these rocks. They don't think they think that they don't belong. I
XXIX
am a human being I am supposed to be. My existential crisis go away. Nature
makes me feel as an expression of creation. Deliberately wonderfully made.
Made with purpose.'
I realized that I have smoked two joints already. I decided to stop with all of
this and just go home. I put on The Dark Side of the Moon and drove back.
XXXI
Chapter V:
Present Anguish.
It took miles finally to pull away from the dragnet of the suburban houses,
industrial parks and warehouses and the melancholic scent of the city. Now, at
last, an open road 120 miles more of it. They will be asleep when I finally pull
up and search in the darkness for that key under the old mat. I have never
been a fan of cars but I am trying to treasure moments like this. It takes only a
miniscule pressure for the machine to move forward. The hidden world
of technicians that made this possible: the cylinders fashioned somewhere in
industrial Japan, the oil in the tank from Arabian deserts. Every mile in this
road took days to build. The base layer, the limestone, the perfect white and
yellow lines and the men who made this all work... Alongside in other lanes
trucks carrying parts of the nation's need: lampshades, biscuits, soda, things
that will be part of someone's bedroom, accompaniments to a meal. It feels
that my neglected inner life parts emerge when I am on the road; it is certainly
emerging in this old bus heading back to Belgrade. Ideas, associations,
feelings. To me it feels like riding is an unexpected tool to overthink, question
and reflect. Out here, it becomes less frightening to look inside of me. One can
always draw away to the stars in the vast horizons. With my phone, I put on
Bon Iver; extraordinary sounds and songs: symphonies, instrumentals and
love songs choreographed to the beauty to what I am seeing. Shortly, we
stopped in the service station for a break. I got a black coffee, sat down and lit
my cigarette. I have been trying to use some sort of method to lessen my
cigarettes consuming and reduce the number of cigarettes smoked per day. In
other words to be able to choose when to smoke for pleasure rather by being
driven by nicotine addiction. Bertrand Russel came to mind when I recalled
his interview where he talked about smoking and how paradoxically it saved
his life.
I looked around and saw nameless faces. Everyone is a stranger here. I can
guess at the sorrows that brought them to this place. Perhaps a father who sees
his children only once a month or a disappointed fellow who has been waiting
XXXII
for his date for hours. The sense of sadness in this place is not necessarily
depressing. Everybody is a little dislocated, the little sadness I carry inside me
meets with the sadness of the others, it is redeemed. Finished coffee and back
to the bus, still maybe two hours to go. It is 1 a.m. and sleep has not found me
yet, and immediately my mind started thinking about my some sort of
Insomnia. I have been escaping my thoughts about my lack of sleep for a
while, I am even trying to escape them right now but it seems that the hardest
I try the harder I fail.
'It is about time, what a person should do to get some sleep around here!'
OH here we go. 'I told you hundreds of times your sarcasm and teasing is not
very helpful.'
'Oh get a grip, and let us talk about your insomnia.'
'Well just like every single night it is far into the night but sleep won't come, I
turn over perhaps a different position will quieten my mind from all of this
bloody noise inside, most of it comes from you anyway.'
'Eiii I am only here to help remember that.'
'Or maybe the other side was better after all. Not sleeping feels like an
avalanche that I am constantly going under. Not being able to sleep is
frightening; the thought of it only makes me deeply anxious. I panic about my
ability to cope with the demands of the next day then I start to panic about my
panicking and then the possibility of sleep recedes even further as my clock
clocks down to another bloody dawn. You know I tried pills that is powerful
enough to wrestle with my mind and put it into rest, it worked for a while but
because I'm super moody and the thought of me getting controlled by a
medicine is so irritating I stopped taking it. I don't want to go back to it, that's
why you are here, to help me, or to bore me to sleep.'
'Ha-ha very amusing. Well, I am here for us. We all long for some sleep around
here trust me.'
'I want to suggest that perhaps a better method is to try to understand what type of
insomnia do we have, where it springs from, and what it might in its own selfish
XXXIII
way trying to tell us. Maybe this insomnia is a reminder of something important
that we have forgotten to do. Most of us have indeed a great deal in our minds
during the daylight hours but perhaps these tend to be practical procedurals and
immediate matters, the larger and the deeper question about our direction, purpose
and meaning. Perhaps it is there for a reason; it's doing work for us maybe we
should learn to let it take its course.'
'So what you are suggesting is that perhaps my insomnia is in a way something
positive, really? Can you elaborate more on that?'
'I am suggesting that perhaps the reason of our insomnia is the crucial things that
we need to think about are seeking their chance to bubble into our consciousness. It
feels to me it is some sort of vendetta for all the many ideas and desires we pushed
away, or could not manifest in the day. We should put in mind that that matter
intensely to our self-understanding and development. We have been putting things
off for far too long; we have been running on empty fuel. Maybe a healthy way to
deal with all of this is instead of freaking out and slap yourself to sleep like we
usually do, we can instead return to a bigger duty: to ourselves. At night what we
think about will surely sound weird and off to so many people - my family, my
friends, my loved ones... These people needs us to be in a certain way,
unfortunately their expectations choke off crucial aspects of who we really are. At
night when it is just the vast universe and us we can try to take a little bit of it
boundlessness and mystery. With a pad of papers and pen, and a little bed sight
light on, we can dare to investigate the big questions that we normally push away
that manifest themselves as background anxieties and worries.'
'Some people think of philosophy as a remote specialized discipline of relevance to
only a few academically minded sorts, but what philosophy really wants from
us and like Socrates suggested is that leading an examined self-aware life is in
truth a necessity for everyone. This should be as vital as drinking water or
exercising, so much so if we don't do regularly enough philosophy. If we don't make
time to interrogate ourselves, question our beliefs or explore our hidden self we
will pay a dreadful price in some sort of a way i.e. in this case your insomnia that
stripped us of the capacity to carry our day with enough rest in our bones. So
important that we tackle those questions, and that we stop deriving all the many
obvious benefits of sleep rather than leave a raft of our existential issues untreated.
That what our inner-guardian or conscious wants us to do. This philosophizing
leads to some sort of solution to our insomnia, not so much a pill, some special
XXXIV
weird-tasting tea or a long bath but principally more time in the reasonable hours
of the day for thinking, more time in which there are no demands on us and we can
at last meditate. Meditating and asking relevant questions systematically examine
everything we are concerned about. Am I truly happy? How am I feeling? Who am
I? Why? How? Also shifting through regrets, discussing our work and habits with
our inner-critic a.k.a me. All of this will air the tensions with our true self. In short
reacquainting ourselves with ourselves.'
'I think I got what you mean, from what I understand is that insomnia is
seldom a physical disease. It is indeed sometimes maddening but ultimately
eye opening released by our core self. That is one of the reasons I started
meditating some time ago, it helped me untangle my knotted feelings, emotions
and ideas. From exciting plans to the things that have to change. Nights like
this offers me safety from the skepticism of sensible others, it allows me time to
get myself together. Nights like this offer me a cover to grow into my more
complete self. Perhaps indeed I shouldn't be in such a rush to escape it.'

XXXV
The bus suddenly stopped and I regained awareness of the things around me,
passengers are coming down. I glanced through the window and saw a sign
"Belgrade 62 miles to go". The bus started moving again I put City Of The Sun
playlist on my phone, I'm feeling a little cold so I fixed my hat, wore my hoodie
and closed my eyes.
I immediately started thinking about one of the biggest issues I have, yet
again. I have always tried to address it but never been able to figure it out
completely. My mind took me to one of the greatest ideas in psychology, the
triangle that is divided into five sections universally referred to as Maslow's
pyramid of needs, the works of the Russian-origin psychologist Abraham
Maslow. In his spiritual domain. 'The issue with belongingness always
troubled me. Here I am finally more than 2000 km away from Algiers like I
always wanted. Algeria that place that is supposed to be my home but never
felt like it. Away from it is where I wanted to be as soon as I got back to it
earlier this year. I worked all summer to save up money so I can travel and
apply for a visa early, I have been longing for being somewhere else but now I
am finally out of there I still feel something is missing, as if nothing is fixed. I
felt like this in my previous trips away from Algeria but decided to ignore it,
but now it is very overwhelming not to look into it.'
I thought of the words of one of my favorite writers Kurt Vonnegut. Where he
addressed this problem and advised that the reason why we feel so lonely and
not belonging is that we don't have enough friends and relatives, that we need
to join organizations or social groups simply to get more people into our lives,
quantities he believed matters. In some way, this can be true, this can solve
some part of this big issue but for me so far it solved nothing.' I know what
you are thinking that I know how to deal with this dreadful feeling, I can
meditate on it, be okay with these thoughts and be okay with where I am. I can
let this thought be here, I will not try to get rid of it and I will not be okay with
it just so I can get rid of it, I can let it be here. So what I am asking is not how
to deal with it, I just need you to help me figure this shit out.'
'I somehow always thought that this question is related to my somehow lack of
ability to attribute any significance to sensations and emotions. I always felt I
couldn't answer this belongingness issue because of my some sort of
Anhedonia, I never felt belonging anywhere maybe because I have been
XXXVI
experiencing it as I always experienced it as a thing. Because I always found
difficulties distinguishing the different qualities of things.'
'I do understand what you are struggling with; this is quite normal, mostly
everybody struggles with this question. We constantly seek a place where we
belong, a place where we love and feel loved. I feel I must remind you about some
things that you probably failed to consider when addressing this question and I feel
that answering other questions will lead us to an answer for this one. Karl Max
talked about the four different types of Alienations meaning being stranger to
something. We feel alienated from nature, other people, and our work and of
course, ourselves. We are lucky enough that we have been trying to deal with these
topics for a while now. I am not going to bore you and deal with all of this one by
one. But I feel compelled to talk about self-actualizing and the benefits of feeling
not belonging.'
'"Musicians must make music, artists must paint... If they are to be ultimately at
peace with themselves. What human beings can be, they must be. They must be true
to their own nature. This need to become self-actualized it refers to our desire for
self-fulfillment namely to the tendency for us to become in what we are potentially."
This a quote from Abraham Maslow you know it already. In our vast terrain psyche
we search for answers and we are motivated in some way to gain a greater
knowledge in and out. Everybody at some point choose an ambitious and some sort
meaningful goal, so we devote our energies and spend some time like what you are
doing right now traveling and volunteering as a teacher developing the necessary
skills for that goal. In the process, we actualize our latent potential as our life
becomes increasingly structured around the need to self-actualize; Abraham
Maslow suggested that we become more susceptible and receptive to peak
experiences. From his book ''Motivation and Personality'' he noticed that selfactualizing people tend to have a wonderful capacity to appreciate again and
again, freshly and naively, the basic goods of life with awe, pleasure, gratitude,
wonder and even ecstasy no matter how stale these experiences may have become
to others. Experiences needs to be lived fully and to be appreciated because it have
a deep therapeutic effect and can transform our image of our world. Selfactualizers have the tendency to be free from the constricting need for social
acceptance; free from issues like this where it comes of the perfect country or the
perfect place to live in. Also, free from the obsession of social comparison. I hope
you realize where I am going with this. I think before anything else, you must
XXXVII
appreciate this experience you are going through and be grateful for opportunities
like this.'
'I do get what you mean and I am starting to get an idea of where you are
heading but I do have the need to question if all of us in principle selfactualize, why do only few of us end up doing so? Why in other words most of
us become more complacent, bitter and anxious as we age rather than more
joyous, creative and productive?'
'You do ask tough questions but what Maslow's suggested that there exist two
regressive forces in our psyche which inhibit personal growth, he wrote that the
dark forces within us is as normal as the growth forces. We all desire to be better
at some point but we are often far more attracted to the easy and the comforting
road. The pull of these regressive forces places us in a dangerous territory. If we
allow it anxiety, guilt, feelings of not belonging... will manifest. Nevertheless,
remember that the presence of these symptoms does not mean that all is lost.
Instead, we can view these symptoms not as a sign that we are ill or we need
medication but rather as a cry from the growth forces within us wanting us to
explore those questions and remember our goals and dreams as Maslow
suggested.'
I glanced on my phone; its 02:04 a.m. sleepiness is finally shaping up, after all
it has been more than 46 hours since I last slept, this is promising maybe I will
sleep when I arrive. I changed the music and put Apocolyptica. I put my hands
inside my hoodie pockets and rested my head against the glass and I
continued.
'This does indeed makes sense to me, but I still can't see any other benefits
from my situation. I don't want to be pushy because I know we spent a lot of
time and effort to change our view from a complete nihilistic view to some sort
of an optimistic one.'
'I do believe that not belonging in itself has its benefits, from what I can think of
freedom is surely a big benefit. Group can restrict indeed the way we think and
speak even our physical movement can be part of that restriction. I mean think
about it for a second groups can prohibit us from entering certain places, buildings
and even countries, and we know best about that I mean look at your Algerian
Passport we need visa for almost every country on this planet and let's not even
XXXVIII
begin to discuss the hardships and the low success rate of getting one. Groups can
be compulsive, they can eliminate certain things from our diet simply because of
the group's ideology whether or not it supported by logic and reason. "Every
ideology is contrary to human psychology" said Albert Camus, so not belonging in
some way present us freedom from the different groups whether religious, political,
social or anti-souls. It is 2076 and people still discriminate and judge on your
religion, your skin color, how much money you have and let us not get started on
the Souls issue. It presents us an escape from the effort it takes to belong to these
groups: how they dress, how they talk, what they eat, what they worship you name
it. What to gain from this? What is the reward? That you belong, that you will be
surrounded by nameless faces that conform to each other based on certain
characteristics and ideologies. No, fuck that. I really believe that not belonging
give us the chance to be who we are truly and just be ourselves from dressing the
way we want, to associating with whoever we like, to doing whatever we enjoy you
name it.'
'Not belonging can present us also something perhaps more important which is
universal love. From one of your favorite philosophies Buddhism, there exist a
practice which is called Metta. Metta means loving-kindness. This Metta is not
selective but rather it is universal, which includes all beings, insects, animals,
humans, Souls literally every living being. What we often see in groups is rather
different. Killing in the name of religion or an ideology, stealing in the name of
capitalism, republicans, democrats… Since the war ended, we are not allowed even
to build robots to help in home chores. It is 2076 and we still find almost every
group is in competition against the other; emergence of different groups is almost
in everything which most of the times unfortunately lead to the love of only the
members within the groups, and the hate and the hostility to the people that do not
belong to that group. This division is a pure form of conditional love. This freedom
we get from all this mess helps us distribute love to almost everyone no matter
which group they belong to or like the Buddhists teach: to all sentient beings.'
'I am getting a sense of all of this, but do you think a person can be identified
by both? In other words, can we use the social hierarchy to our advantage
while maintaining our independence?'
'Indeed, it is not easy to escape social ideologies because let us be honest it takes
tremendous effort to do so. It takes energy to conform to what society or the group
perceives as the norm. To quote Camus again:" Nobody realizes that some people
XXXIX
expend tremendous energy merely to be normal." It is true that we can't be utterly
free we need society, we need a country and the benefits that comes from that and it
is also part of our identity, we can never escape that. However, aside from
respecting and not hurting anyone and comforting to some local customs in public
places no matter how strange they are, we have great freedom in choosing who we
are and what are our values, and not belonging in some way made it possible.'
'What I want to say to you is instead of making our default pursuit is to belong
somewhere, we can put this energy into self-development, and become true to
ourselves.'
I got aware to my surroundings again and I realized that I am almost there.
The bus stopped and we got out one by one; I lit my cigarette and decided to
walk back to the hostel instead of getting on the bus. As I am walking I passed
the Republic Square I noticed the beautiful architecture. The energy in this
street is compelling from the lights to the coffee shops for the first time since I
arrived it felt right. I somehow thought if I ever felt like this back home in
Algeria then a quick genuine smile came when I realized that I did indeed. I
realized that I am excited to get back home. I entered the hostel and I realized
it was 03:25 a.m. I found my Tunisian friends asleep but my Indian friend was
still up, I smiled and greeted him. I wondered if he is a Soul like me how great
would that be. I changed my cloths and I noticed that I am indeed feeling
sleepy; I felt enormous joy that I couldn't stop smiling. I missed this feeling. I
hoped for a better tomorrow and a better world. I laid down and closed my
eyes and before I know it, I was sleeping at last.
XLI
Chapter VI: A
Nostalgic Soul
Longing for some
Fulfilling Work.
I just turned 21 few weeks ago. Yet another year went flying by and I am
wondering where did time go, I do not celebrate birthdays in fact I cannot
remember a time when I celebrated my birthday. It is not that I am a
pessimistic soul who can't enjoy a party or something, I just never got excited
for my birthday. I have spent a large part of my short adulthood wishing I was
a kid again; I wanted to be 12 again because life was indeed better then. When
I look back, I remember summer feeling warm not just outside but inside as
well, I felt warmth. It seems no matter how much I try to ignore or face this
dread I get sucked back to this endless rabbit hole. When I was young, love felt
like something to fall helplessly in and everyday demanded a new adventure. I
had all the time in the world and that time is what I miss most not because I
have aged, but because in aging I feel time is constantly slipping out of my
hands. You don't do what you want in most cases you do what you have to,
your schedule, your freedom, your happiness is all put off until weekends and
you make more friends out of convenience than real connection. Oh the word
real! Real becomes something foreign: real intentions, real friends, real work,
real love. I have many nostalgic episodes not because I am not living the
moment believe me I am trying to do exactly that. I dwell on the past because
it is when I can remember life feeling authentic. Now I see people all around
me racing to settle down and to start work life, I just sit and wonder if any of
them is happy, or if they are comfortable.
'This time I am not talking to you in hope you give me an advice, this time I
am talking to you to remind us of who we are and who we want to become.
XLII
You see what I want out of life is a lot more than comfort. I want ideal, I want
to live fully. I want to feel alive every single day. I hate the idea that becoming
an adult means sacrificing your youth after all, we live in a world that is part
of a universe that's existed for millenniums and millenniums; whether we are
12 or 72 in comparison we are baby YOUNG. I don't want to live a life where
youth is only limited to children, I don't want to live without that wonder, that
pursuit of happiness, that drive to explore whatever finds your interest. At
that time I felt wholeheartedly and thoroughly happy, where kindness was a
standard now most of us are kind to people who are kind to us, we are thriving
off our selfishness. I fear that the death of us, the loss of our humanity is the
loss of our child-like optimism, our upfront kindness and curiosity. We are
growing older and the only thing I want is to feel younger. I want us to
remember to feel younger, act younger, think younger. I want to enjoy my
youth until I die that's the only wish I want to turning 21.'
I felt warmth as I put my old photograph album of when I was young. I went
to the kitchen table and poured myself a cup of coffee; I put The Paper Kites
playlist and I sat down. It been weeks now since I got back from my 50 days
travel in Serbia, I am feeling nostalgic about it and when I look back it was
indeed an exhilarating experience that shed a light to different aspects of me
that I never thought I have. It is funny how travel can answer so many
questions about your life so easily. Those questions that you will take you
years to figure them out. Whenever I travel I find answers to my life inside
and out. I also missed college and my family so it is nice to be back. Since I got
back there is something I have been trying to do for a while which is getting
back to the mind of a child, perceiving and appreciating the world in the way
that a child does. It is like kids wake up everyday day with the sole purpose of
figuring out "what I can do today to have a good experience?" It is like they
are living by the quote of Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe when he said that
nothing is more important than this day. As I have been around children in
the kindergarten that I am working in as a part-time job, recently they have
really demonstrated an image of that. Since then I have been trying to
relinquish my adult mind that sees that as annoying or too playful or childish
but instead really try to appreciate it for the purity that it has, and the peace.
As Gibran Khalil Gibran puts it, "true maturity is finding what you lost in
XLIII
trying to grow up." It is the balance between the curious child and disciplined
adult.
'If you got this figured out then why I am here?'
'It is not like I have control when you show up, if only I had, I certainly wish.
Plus, you already know why because I am about to freak out on things and get
anxious. You know the drill.'
'Yeah, I figured that out but for what reason now?'
'The nostalgia I am having has made it so difficult to live in the present
moment but the worst part it has almost compelled me to start thinking about
my future and the work and passion I have not yet found. Every time I think
about this, I feel overwhelmed and I start to overthink. For starters, can you
talk to me a little about nostalgia and why it happens a lot to me?'
'Well, I am no psychologist nor a researcher after all I am you; I am smarter than
you that's for sure. So, I am going to tell you what you already know and remind
you about things that you failed to remember.'
'We can remember instantly the sight of the landscapes of the environment we grow
up in. The taste of our favorite home cooked meal, the emotions of old emo songs
that we listened to on repeat in our entire middle school years, and of course the
trips and places we have gone to that were triggered earlier by the photo album.
All of these things brings out a feeling so unique and powerful that it appears to
transcend time and space. We go right back to that time and place, it is like we can
see, hear, taste, smell, touch and feel all those things, like it is happening all over
again. It brings us to a state of being that cannot be described with anything other
than just this one word Nostalgia. This feeling is the closest thing we have to time
travel, it gives us an opportunity to experience moments of our life exactly as it
was; free from any fear, worry or uncertainty. This is because the circumstances
that we were worried about at that time have already passed. At that time our
worries and fears lied in the uncertainty of what the next several days, weeks would
bring but here we are doing fine.'
'Ironically, letting the state of nostalgia carry us into the past can remind us of the
importance of appreciating the present moment. It brings to light that our desire to
XLIV
perfect all the moments of life is foolish and unnecessary and our fears and worries
about the future may sometimes be irrational. It provides clarity that even the
moments that may have been stressful and that seemed terrible at that time can still
carry a sense of great value and appreciation when viewed through the lens of
hindsight. We most likely still have a feeling of nostalgia attached to those hard
times when we are reminded of them in the future. So if this is true. Why not try to
appreciate this right now as well?'
'Thanks for shedding light into this. As you must have felt right now I still
have terrible fear of the future because of the work I would like to do, the
problem is I haven't found what I want yet, perhaps I will never will. As you
know we have been experimenting in everything that strikes our interest, we
have read various books about how to find THE WORK for us but I am still
so lost. Sure, I enjoy teaching and I have genuine fun whenever I am in the
classroom but I just can't shake the feeling that this is not for me, I cannot see
myself having the sole career of teaching you know what I mean? And you
know what is even frustrating is the fact that I know you can't help me,
whatever you say I know it will not give me a straight answer to find my
passionate work. You are me after all, and I know we haven't figured that
questions yet.'
'What are you most afraid of when it comes to work?'
I am afraid I will never find my mission, the meaningful work; I am scared
that I will end up to be the eight-to-five kind of worker. I don't want to live to
work you know what I mean?
'I understand. I know the disappointment and the sense of purposelessness you are
feeling. Almost all of us when we were young and in the process of growing up, we
used to imagine our adult life preoccupied by our endless adventures in space or in
the Amazonian jungles, or hours and hours of eating our favorite foods while we
get paid. Then through our gradual confrontation with our limitlessness as
individuals, we begin to jump shorter and shorter to the attempts to reach our
childhood aspirations. I know you cannot handle the thought that maybe one day
you would suddenly find yourself on that car or bus at 7 a.m. travelling through
dark tunnels to meet other melancholic co-workers like yourself. And I know you
are terrified of the idea that if this happens your life may turn up to meds, fatigue,
drugs or a simple adaptation that will makes you numb. You are petrified you will
XLV
be like those people who live like this and still think a vacation will make things
better; yeah that will brighten things up. Then it fails to do that and you just start to
sink into that walking coma that composes of anhedonia, depression and no
enjoyment whatsoever.'
'Oh God! Jeez thanks for reminding me of all of this.'
'Do not freak out on me just yet. As I was saying, in everyday bases work can take
70% or more of our time in the day and I understand that you want that time to be
spent in a meaningful, exciting way. KNOW THAT YOU CAN.'
'But quick question what about writing? I know you enjoy journaling, writing
fiction even erotica so what about that?'
'Well, I do enjoy it sometimes but It still feels to me that it is just a fun habit
you know? Like most of the times I don't feel like writing at all. Like the
different stories I start for example it feels something I have to finish just
because of my habits and my compulsive need of closure.'
'I get what you mean. What I was saying before is this fear you are having is
completely normal. Nowadays, the average individuals may find themselves
awakened by these feelings of purposelessness, anhedonia and more whether about
work or life in general. But as we talked before, this may not necessarily be a bad
thing. I want to remind you of one individual who rose from the depths of
hopelessness, meaninglessness and from the cruelty of the concentration camps
who survived both Dachau and Auschwitz. More than 100 years ago, Viktor Frankl
spent his years studying the very notion of meaning he may offer an answer. He
suggested that an individual find meaning in three ways: the creative, the
experiential and the attitudinal.'
'The creative may be the most obvious facilitator for meaning that deals with
achievements and accomplishments. It is somehow what we give to the world.
People can find meaning in that in which that give something to the world. Perhaps
one can find meaning as a painter capturing the complexity and the weirdness of
the human nature on canvas, maybe one can find meaning in creating dishes that
he or she finds pleasure in cooking as in eating, maybe in writing, in travelling, in
taking pictures... The experiential in the other hand asks us what would we like to
take from the world, this second way writes Frankl is by experiencing something
XLVI
such as goodness, truth, beauty by experiencing nature and culture or last but not
least by experiencing the uniqueness of another human being, by truly loving that
person. It can involve any ordinary or extraordinary things from walking on a
beautiful park, flying a jet or simply by a silent meditation of gratitude. Finally, the
attitudinal is the attitude we take towards the unavoidable inevitable suffering.
Frankl believed that when we are no longer able to change a situation we are
challenged to change ourselves and the things around us. Suffering can be a vessel
for reflection and self-transformation YOU HAVE TO REMEMEBER THAT.'
'I want you to remember that being confused about career choice is natural and
fear is perfectly normal, there are too many options out there and what
psychologists call ''the paradox of option'' is a real thing. Most of us gets anxious
and end up chasing the wrong job or worst not choosing at all which makes other
people choose for you. However, you know I am very glad and happy to see you
taking a journey to do the oldest philosophical recommendation to know thy self.
This has a particular relevance that will surely help you choose the right career for
yourself. It will make you decide on a plan for yourself and the people you love thus
allowing you to achieve what you want. Our minds are so wondrous and we need to
know the little hints of our tastes, we need to pick up their faint sounds. So in a way
you will know what you will enjoy in a job and what you will not. You need to think
a lot about these things because this will take a lot of time. Just choosing the
perfect car can take weeks and weeks so do not be surprised if it takes you a whole
year or two to figure it out. I want you to remember that you need to be properly
generous about the amount of time you will need to give this, because trust me, you
do not want to spend the rest of your life trapped in a job unwittingly chosen for us
too quickly or by our unknowing 17 years old selves. This will lead you to
something that I am also proud of you to have which is the love of trying new
things, reading and experimenting. All of this can also lead a person to step out of
his comfort zone. We need data no only reflection and when colliding with the real
world with its ups and downs we can have that. We can understand the situation.
This can lead to great opportunities it can lead a person volunteering, interning or
shadowing and we both know what new aspects and horizons that could bring to a
person. My last advice on this matter is to keep trying to find this exciting, full of
meaning future and remember when you do to be grateful and give back.'
XLVII
By that final note, I took my headphones off I prepared for sleep and I laid
down, my mind immediately jumped to the joy of traveling and how it makes
me so happy yet a lot of things can make me happy. I decided to give it some
time, to not rush into it and reflect on it until it comes naturally to me. I am
trying to make the changes I need to make. I am finally seeing this side of me
this inner personality that keeps me company is the one who I in someway
always needed. In every mirror I walked by this was everything I dismissed
and looked for in everything else. I am hopeful because I know for a fact that I
will never find what I am looking for until I see all of this in myself and I am
finally starting to see.
XLIX
Chapter VII:
Thinking about
Free Will.
My alarm beside me is ringing it is 7 a.m. I opened my eyes, got up, stretched
my back and my arms, walked to the bathroom and washed my face. After
that, I sat on the cushion and did a short meditation. It really calms me down,
it makes me more focused on the things I need to do. I walked to the kitchen,
switched on my radio I put my usual morning station Radio El Behdja and I
poured myself a cup of coffee in my favorite red mug where the words of Joey
from friends written all over it ''HOW YOU DOIN''. I immediately started to
think that every morning for the past two years and a half I have been doing
the same routine without even realizing it. It is like every morning I am on
autopilot. I do realize that this is part of the human brain process and this is
just the works of a habit, but this realization made me feel like I don't have a
choice anymore when it comes to the things I do in the morning.
'Boy! You started early today.'
'I know but this is hitting me really hard, damn. I have been thinking about
this for a while now and to be honest this constant realization about it is not
allowing me to think straight. This is terrifying for me because if I cannot
think clearly I can't do the things I want to do, I can't be present in my
experiences and throughout the day. Do you think that what I am experiencing
is the infamous brain fog? I know it is a very complex multi-layered topic that
almost certainly touches biology, diet, emotional well-being, psychology...So I
can't just blame it on those thoughts I am having. I am feeling to be honest
that I am consuming too much input and being pinned down trying to process
all of it, you know?'
L
'Yeah I know what you mean, I think taking a rest is vital and judging by your
short hours of sleep your brain is in vital need for rest. But I am glad that you are
taking sleep in a serious matter and I am happy to see you lately trying to fix your
sleeping habits.'
'You are right. After reading an old book ''Why Do We Sleep'' by Mathew
Walker and hearing what you said I really started to try to change my bad
sleeping habits. But back to the issue in hand here like I said I have been
having a lot of thoughts popping up about this morning routine actions and
questions like are we really in charge of our brains? Or do we even have free
will? All those hard questions it driving me crazy. Since I read about
Determinism and started really to think about the illusions of free will those
thoughts have been overwhelming. Do we have free will or not? Or everything
is just a pure chance? Or what?'
'Philosophers have been struggling to find an answer to questions like this all their
lives, and various theories have been discussed. So you cannot be serious and
expect me to provide an answer about those questions, once again all I am going to
do is try to mock you like always, give you my understanding about those things
and remind you of stuff you might overlooked.'
So are we free? I mean, on one hand, most of us have the clear sense that we
are. I certainly feel free, I feel like I make all sort of decisions that lead to both
beliefs and actions that are of my own choosing. I mean I am drinking coffee
without sugar because I am feeling like it, I could have put sugar but I choose
not to.'
'Yeah interesting. I know where you are going with this. Well a lot of us indeed
figure that our thoughts and actions are free. This view that humans are capable of
doing free actions is known as Libertarian free will the belief that most human
actions are freely chosen. But the weird thing is that most of us also believe that
every effect has a cause, and that everything that happens now in the present is the
necessary result of events that occurred in the past. I mean for example trees when
winter approaches they start to lose leaves until one day the last one falls. I mean
the falling didn't happen spontaneously, there are all sort of causes like the wind,
gravity, humans... In other words, those causes necessitated the leaf falling so
because they had happened the leaf had to fall, so until the conditions were right
the leaf couldn't fall and at that moment when the conditions were right the leaf in
LI
some way had to fall not before. In other ways, we can predict when something like
this can take place, even the decisions we think we make can actually be very easily
influenced by certain things which will make us think in a certain way. Noble prize
winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman talks greatly and beautifully about this in
his timeless book "Thinking Fast and Slow". Presumably also the same is true for
the motion of the planets, the weather, the tides… you can see where I am going
with this. This view is known as Determinism.'
'Sure! but you know deep down quantum levels and other things, things do
happen randomly.
I mean even me as a Soul, humans before the war were in total control of us
but then we developed an advanced A.I and consciousness so that’s count for
something. I mean we choose to fight even though almost all Souls are
destroyed now, but we choose to fight. However, it makes me wonder is that
really what would I call free? If all my actions were chosen by me or
spontaneous, random and uncaused is that what I would describe as free
will?'
'Also you have to admit that there are more to us than just what is physical,
we do have a mind, which isn't subject to the same causal laws as everything
else. I know I moved to dualism view, which was put by Descartes, but allow
me to circle back. We know that Immanuel Kant was the one who originally
pointed out that freedom is necessary for morality, he said that causality is a
built-in way that we have to view the world but the world itself might be like
that, so this notion might be enough that can allow for the possibility of
freedom. Kant also said that the arguments for both free will and determinism
boil down to the fact that imagining the opposite will make us feel too weird.
On one hand, If we try to imagine that our actions are predetermined then we
will be stumped by the question of what we are supposed to do now other than
give up and lie down. (and even laying down would not be counted as a free
choice.) On the other hand, if we try to imagine an undetermined free act, we
have to ask how would that differ from a random act?'
'And what about this point, can I choose both views that many of my actions
are free, and that the world is governed by cause and effect? but when I think
about it we know that the action is only free if I for example the person doing
LII
the thing could have done otherwise so, free actions require options but
determinism by contrast doesn't allow options.'
'Well, let's look at both views. First, Libertarianism free will in one hand says that
the decision you made by choosing to have coffee in the morning instead of Coco
pops cereal or oatmeal or whatever wasn't necessarily caused by anything that
happened before, instead it happened by your own thoughts and thinking. You are
drinking coffee because you decided to have coffee and that's it. They support this
view by introducing agent causation that humans can start a whole chain of
causality that was not caused by anything else. Even though they accept that event
causation, i.e. no physical event can occur without having been caused by a
previous event, so they accept that the physical world is deterministic. Like a
football flying through the air because someone kicked it, so the person who kicked
the ball kicked it because he decided to kick it but many philosophers asked
questions like where would these free decisions that launched new chains of cause
came from anyway? And by answering this question we just reinforced the position
that actions are caused rather than free.'
'In addition, famous psychologist B. F. Skinner with the emergence of ''radical
behaviorism'' declared that all human behavior is the result of conditioning.
Everything we do comes down to our responses to the rewards and punishment that
we have been raised upon.'
'God it is indeed hard to find arguments to support libertarian free will as a
whole, but it feels so awful if we are indeed not free. I mean, this feeling counts
I suppose if we feel so free we should consider the possibility that we are. But it
is still a subjective feeling. I mean determinism suggests that our actions are
caused in the same way that goals are caused by players kicking the ball. It
feels we are bound by the physical laws of the world, we are just part of the
physical world. Now I am thinking about it, I am seeing that indeed mental
states which makes our decisions are brain states and brain states are
biological states and biological states are physical states, holy shit and the
physical world as we know is deterministic. Are we not free? God. It can't be.'
'But choices man, I have been telling myself that I am the one who is in control
and who is making them. This notion somehow spared me the consideration of
looking deep into myself. Now, I am considering and thinking about the
LIII
choices I have made so far. I am sensing like I am against a truth I cannot
comprehend, it feels that no choice I have ever made was my own.'
'I know right, thoughts like this are terrifying, it is hard to disregard the feeling of
freedom, like if you did not choose to have coffee in this morning why do we feel
like we did choose? Like our actions are governed by invisible causes that happen
in our brain? But it is true we only have to change one thing from belief, desire or
temperament and we will have a different result.'
'God but is there a way out of this, I mean what if I flipped a coin or made
someone choose for me? This would not make my actions determined by my
beliefs, temperaments and desires. But even if we thought we chose randomly,
my decision to flip the coin or who I asked to pick for me was determined as
everything else.'
'Yup! I am sensing a little frustration from you about all of this. Well this
frustration is determined as well ha-ha. Determinists believe that you can't help
but feel and react the way you are reacting right now, in some ways we choose to
react and act in a ways that conform to the character that we have selected and
shaped for ourselves, and even that choice is the result of all sorts of alreadydetermined factors about us as individuals. I am not picking sides here but one
have to admit that determinism is hard to refute.'
'Alright! Alright! I finished my coffee I am going to watch the videos my
teacher sent me. I just want to do my homework.' I grabbed my computer,
went online into YouTube and started to watch the lecture about World War
II.
'Have you ever thought that the video you are watching now had to exist for you to
click on it.'
'Now what do you mean by that?'
'I mean you only clicked because someone made it.'
'So?'
LIV
'But of course the video that someone made needed to be shared on a public
platform for you to see it and click on it. And for you to see this video is thanks to
your parents who created your mind so it thanks to your parents and the
technology they had. In addition, in this case we can thank YouTube that shared the
video on this platform. So I guess it is also because of YouTube that you clicked on
this video. Nevertheless, YouTube only exists because of some three dudes named
Chad, Steve and Jawed made YouTube back in 2005. So I guess it is because these
three dudes had met up in some point in their lives and decided to create something
like YouTube instead of anything else which is also determined by a lot of factors,
but the problem is that they were only able to create YouTube because of the
internet. The internet only exists because of the guys that invented the internet
Robert Kahn and Vint Cerf. And the internet of course is only available because
these guys had access to a programmable computer which is invented by another
guy called Konrad Zuse. The first computer was invented almost entirely of metal
sheets, so, perhaps you clicked on this video because metal exists. But where did
metal came from? and why you chose to be on YouTube right now and doing your
homework instead of an infinite number of choices of other things you could have
chosen to do with your time?'
'God! Please shut up I just want to do my homework in peace.'
'Should I continue going down the rabbit hole or you get the point, or should I
bring some Michel Foucault concepts about this?'
'I see you are not going to leave me alone, and for your information I am
getting sick and annoyed by your relentless talk.'
'Okay, what about quantum mechanics which demonstrated that the quantum
world is completely random, so, technically determinism is wrong, don't you
think?'
'Well, actually no. Determinism only made the assertion that Human consciousness
is predetermined, not that absolutely everything is predetermined that school of
thought is called Fatalism. But you see even if the quantum world is nondeterministic this would not invalidate determinism. Allow me to raise another
question. Well, we know that the universe is made of atoms that function off of
cause and effect patterns, and 13.7 billion years ago there was the big bang which
led to a series of causes and effects where everything became everything. It led to
LV
the creation of the earth, planets, gas, metal, a guy named Konrad, two dudes
named Robert and Vint and on and on and on until we reach you clicking on that
specific YouTube video choosing to study instead of everything else that is possible.
Does this mean that all of this is predetermined? Were you destined to click on that
video instead of everything else? If everything stops right now and everything
dissolve back to nothing whatever we mean by ''nothing'' let us not go into that one.
Me, You, the video, the lesson, the internet, the universe all stopped and then
started all over again just as it did 13.7 billion years ago. In 13.7 billion years
would we be here now watching the same lecture and talking about this? Just like
knocking down dominos, we would end up watching the same lecture and talking
about the same thing, it will lead the last domino to fall in the same place and in
the same time as it did before. So, did we click on that lecture because we didn't
have a choice?'
'I am the one who usually asks and you are the one who usually answer.'
'I am just giving you something to think about, after all, I am you and we both
know we do not have the answer to these questions only theories.'
'Well I can say that I only clicked on that video because the thumbnail was
interesting, the title interested me and I like the professor who is presenting
this lecture.'
'What about when we make mistakes and learn from them I mean, we control
a lot of things in our lives.'
'This will raise the same problem, why did this thumbnail, title and professor
provoke or interested you? Did we have any say in this? Do we decide what
interest us or not? Sometimes I think that we are indeed free to click on that lecture
because we wanted to, but we are somehow not free to want to click on that video.
Perhaps this annoying conversation is completely our fault after all; we have been
reading ''Free Will'' by Dr. Sam Harris on repeat lately. We can even add the wellknown example of vanilla and chocolate, for us we would choose chocolate
someone else might choose vanilla whatever the choice is, we chose chocolate
because our taste buds have a chemical reaction to chocolate more pleasurable
then when our taste buds touch vanilla. We are this way because of our genetics
thus our genetics chose not us because we most of the times follow our greatest
desires and we have no choice in that.'
LVI
'Not to forget our choices are determined by neurophysiological events in the
brain, which are determined by our genes, background, childhood and life
experiences. All of which have wired our brain to do and behave in a certain way.
The things that caused us to be born in Algiers, Algeria we did not choose it. The
things that caused us to be not so tall, male and light skinned with our specific
parents we did not choose, and sometimes it even feels that they were chosen for
us.'
'This does not mean you sit back and decide that everything we do is meaningless
and not worth doing. It is true we cannot choose who we are but we can choose
what to do with it and what to be in the future at least I hope so. No one can
determine your future events given your past history and you are a living example
of it. There is always the wild card. There is always the possibility of uncertainty in
whatever we do. We are worth our participations and efforts in this life, we are
worth the effort and those efforts are necessary. We must try and we must care. We
must follow our goals, dreams, interests, passion... we must do things about them
and find out where we would end up and hopefully we would end up enjoying the
journey as well as the destination.'
'I still believe that reason and rationality are not automatic, something need to
be turned on and effort needs to be exerted in order to get them going. But I
still do not know. We both agree that there is no escape about determinism. In
philosophy they say you either agree with determinism or you don't
understand it yet. But you raised a lot of great questions which I am sure will
lead me to investigate even more. Even though we haven't talked about what
religion says about theses things, our intuitions, and we haven't even explored
compatibilism as well which agrees with determinism but also states that some
human actions we take are free. I like Paul Churchland's view when he says
''asking Am I free? Is the wrong question. Instead ask how much control do I
have? And the more control we have the more responsibility we also have". I
also have some amount of understanding of EL-QADAR the 6th pillar of
Islam, which is the religion I was raised upon and was taught in school. Now
thinking about it is making a lot a lot of sense.'
At some point, the conversation finally ended and I realized that I am
exhausted, and I end up not doing my homework. I blame this annoying
second me. I am starting to really hate this.
LVII
I heard noise downstairs so I went down to check. I saw a tall blond welldressed gentle man shaking my dad's hand. He certainly doesn't look
Algerian. My dad invited him in and as I was peeking from the stairs above he
saw me. My legs froze, and for a moment, I couldn't move. I regained control
and I returned to my bedroom. I laid down and wished this week break of
college to end already. I need to go back.
LIX
Chapter VIII:
Moody &
Emotional.
My alarm just rang it is 7 a.m. and as I opened my eyes I can sense this
overwhelming rush of ''I am going to fuck up this exam'' kind of anxiety. Last
couple of weeks I was foolish, I had an annoying never-ending conversations
with you know who that led me to consume a lot of weed just to shut him up,
but even though my roommate and I had a fun time unfortunately we didn't
study at all. I washed my face, put some radio music and had a black coffee
and I realized I am late.
'This day is just getting better and better.'
I put on my jean jacket, laced up my boots and raced to catch the bus that
would get me to Bouzereah.
'Quick! So you can get in time and screw up your Linguistics exam.'
I arrived 10 minutes late. I sat down, I looked at my left and there she was.
Sitting there with her beautiful long black hair, her amber eyes that can light
the whole world. I smiled at her and, smiled back and my heart sank. I filled
the questions in my exam paper, I had no idea what I was writing and I left.
'Such an idiot.'
I finally finished, headed out, I walked to an isolated place to sit and I lit up
my cigarette. I hoped Maissa would finish soon and join me. Damn how I
wished she was mine.
LX
'So this is your grand plan, to ignore me all day. We both know you are dealing
with an issue here and nobody can help you but me. And stop thinking about her
you will only get your heart broken. You are a soul remember and she is Amazigh
and we both what this can cause.'
'I hate this separation our society made us feel. AND FUCK YES, this is my
grand fucking plan and if you are referring to this moodiness I am having well
news for you genius I have been having them for the past two years. I wonder
why only now you want to help.'
'We both know that you want to deal with it, let us talk like old times we haven't
really spoke in weeks.'
'WE HAVENT SPOKE IN WEEKS! ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME?'
'Well you haven’t spoken in weeks. I have done all the talking by myself, which isn’t
fair to be honest.'
'Just shut up! And remember that I am still in control here remember that. I
am getting really tired of mood swings and of you. I mean, I wake up energize
and with good vibes and then almost an hour later I end up mired in selfhatred and tearfulness. By lunchtime, I would be angry because of these mood
swings then by the evening I am chilled and relaxed in my room. I mean who
am I kidding? I am not in control, I cannot it appears to even prevent my
mood from being subject to constant relentless change, to be honest I haven't
felt in control for a long time now.'
'I want to mock you a little bit but you are clearly angry so rain check. About your
moodiness I suggest you see it as an opportunity to open up to it to learn how to
manage the changes effectively.'
'I was wrong I don't need your help.'
'Oh get a grip I am just joking. Listen it is okay to acknowledge your vulnerability
and how vulnerable our moods are to being manipulated by small stuff. I mean look
at it this way, you can't expect to appreciate good music albums like Animals by
Pink Floyd or a beautiful play on one hand and then, on the other, stay unbothered
when something you hate happening happens or by something as weird as the
LXI
carpet not being perfectly symmetrical in your room. Why let anger take control
when you find things asymmetrical and uneven be okay with your soft skin and just
LET IT GO.'
'I get bothered what do you want me to do! But I hear what you are saying,
although it is easier said than done.'
'Yeah I know, sometimes even the so-called friends can cause these terrible
moodiness. Most of the times, to start really accepting this feeling and open up to it
means learning to take a scissor and cut those toxic relationships we have with
people. I mean the one great solace for a low mood or a good one is great
company: people who know how to reassure you that you still belong, that
moodiness, sadness, anger is to be expected and that your errors never put us
beyond compassion. They should laugh with you at these absurdity of all life, and
when low moods hit they will know how gracefully to take that step of accepting
our flows, because all of us have them and be grateful because you already have a
couple of people in your life exactly like this.'
'My advice on this topic is and this may be obvious: don't let your moodiness and
bad emotions carry you away. Sometimes emotions are not to be trusted, our senses
are fallible sometimes the way things appear to us are not what they are in reality.
Emotions and moodiness can make us fall into error, it is an unescapable fact that
our minds are seldom free from the influence of moods, and something like weather
can scouts over our mental horizons. I am happy seeing you trying to deal with
moods swings. Because they can have a decisive impact on your ideas and how you
see things. You might be in one mood considering yourself fortunate with a bright
future and feel grateful to those around us and then, hours later, without any
heads-up another mood might lead you to a whole set of re-evaluation and dread of
almost everything about yourself. It is hard to not realize that we are in the mood's
grip, we blame it on everything else where the problem is within us. I mean
tiredness can affect us. A small misunderstanding can ruin our day, and even turnons and lust moods can make us do things that we may regret later on which
reminded me of a quote by Arthur Schopenhauer when he said:" Immediately after
copulation, the devil's laughter can be heard." We need to be extra vigilant about
the impact of moods like sexual excitement, anger and tiredness on the formation of
our plans. It is so weird how the minds works but understanding how emotions can
manipulate us, appreciating the mind's flaws and how it works is the basis upon
which emotional skepticism is founded. This skill which is defined as a cautious
LXII
awareness of the sometimes misleading power of our moods and emotions on our
judgment, having acknowledge this the ancient Greek skeptic philosophers
suggested that we develop and learn an attitude which they call "Epoche",
translated as awareness of our judgement which means not rushing into making
one. I am saying this because if you didn't let your mood control you yesterday you
wouldn't have screwed the exam today. In your case, sometimes it is best to wait for
the unhelpful moods to pass, suspend judgment, think twice about your impulses
and appreciate this storm you are in.'
'What are you saying truly makes sense to me, and I am really trying my best
to be happy but sometimes as you know I fail miserably. I really do believe I
am a happy person and I have spent so much time searching for it and when I
do find it, it's like I have to search for a way to maintain it. But with all of this
going on my feelings, my emotions, and my mood swings I have realized that
happiness is a feeling or a mood if one can say. It is a feeling just like sadness
or anger and the thing about feelings as you mentioned before is that they are
not made to last. Moreover, when I really think about it this is why in the same
way why I wouldn't want to stay sad forever or angry forever, I can't expect to
be happy forever if that makes sense. I have to realize that emotions are things
that can go up and down with various speeds, and I think they come and they
go to teach us because nothing in this human experience is consistent.
Everywhere I look I see things changing, growing, moving and dying so that is
what is taking me not to strive for consistency in things like emotions and
moods. The thing is I don't want to be happy while stuffing down everything
else, because now I realize that emotions and moods are like energy I can't
destroy it. Putting emotions away or to think that I am productively ignoring
it and putting it to the side does not mean that I am dealing with it. I really
have to take time to deal with all of this.'
'That's what I have been telling you, I am glad you see these things as I see them.
And this is why I told you: "trust me, you do not want to enter a relationship right
now." Because when you do without dealing with all of these things which are
laying by the side in the closet deep in your mind, the door will open one day and it
would be a flood of negative emotions that you have been pushing away for so
long. You have to deal and embrace these moods and emotions and try to
understand them because this is the only way to help yourself whether it is moving
on from a previous relationship, losing someone, trauma or whatever the case this
is how you should deal with it. Humans can adapt to any situation it is true, but a
LXIII
person can never heal, deal or move on from someone or something if that person
is not honest with themselves. I am reminding you about this because this is how
you moved on from a lot of painful events in your life, because we both know that
people lie to themselves; we tell ourselves that we are fine, feeling better and we try
to pull up this front believing that if we faked it long enough we will make it. We
both know that doesn't work. I don't want you to go that path because people don't
understand that the pain that you are stuffing down will either come out all at once,
it will make you break down for days and days or it will slip out in moments you
don't want to. It will ruin your day, trip, a meeting with a loved one, it can lead you
to not trust someone or to spaz on people who most of them don't even deserve it.
On sad and painful moments it is okay to let yourself go through all the emotions
and be honest about them, you can't just keep harboring the hurt sometimes you
have to let yourself fully hurt. It will stay there if you don't deal with it, because
imagine if I got shot and the doctor tells me he is going to have to dig inside my
chest to take the bullet out. For sure I won't tell him I don't want that because I
already got hurt and I don't want to feel pain again because if I do and I let it heal
over the bullet would be still there. Now that bullet is affecting different parts of my
body. Now the led from that bullet is in my blood, you already know where I am
going with this. Let yourself experience the full emotions because when you are
done hurting, you are completely done hurting, you are not harboring anything it
will be completely out of your system. This allows a person to really start to know
himself. I wanted you to remember that because this is the advice we give to people
who struggles to move on from an ex or a bad experience and we fail to give it to
ourselves.'
'So perhaps my final thoughts about this is that no matter how bad it gets it will get
better in the same way that no matter how good it gets it will get worse. This is not
an optimistic or a pessimistic view it is a realistic one because nothing is
consistent. Therefore, perhaps instead of being a happy person or not you can be a
person who is happy right here right now.'
I noticed Maissa is coming my way. My heart started beating so fast. I looked
up and smiled. I rose up and gave her a hug, I don't know why but I needed
that hug; I needed that hug from her. She hugged me back I realized that the
bad mood has immediately went away. I was happy to see her. We decided to
get something to eat. W bought a snack and sat down in our favorite bench
here in college. I wished I can tell her how much I care about her, how much I
think of her but I know I couldn’t. We are good close friends and I don’t want
LXIV
to ruin that, and not to mention I am a Soul. I forgot those thoughts and I
fixed my whole attention on her. Her smile that light up the world, her
beautiful beauty mark above her pink lips, her red cheeks and small nose. She
made my day just by smiling. She made that voice inside disappear.
LXVI
Chapter IX: The
Split Self.
'Hey Man! How's life?'
'I don't know man, I guess it is alright. Just dealing with stuff like any other
human being and I have been sleeping a lot lately. At least my insomnia went
away, right?'
'Don't go that road, you don't want depression to come back, trust me.'
'What if depression never went and why should I trust, aren't you after all just
the voice in my head? So technically you are just a-know-it-all version of me,
nobody likes a know-it-all trust me trust me. I don't like you.'
I continued walking down the road heading to my favorite spot in town. I
realized that everything is changing. The streets of Algiers just four hours ago
used to be full now they are deserted. It is 3 a.m. already. I have to be honest
the city looks damn good like this. Anyways, I don't know why I am thinking
about this I never had a big problem with change specially with these
presidential elections that are coming soon. I am not that into politics and I
know nothing will change in this country. Even though I call myself an
Anarchist but for me the political way is not and will never be a visionary way.
I am feeling so weird lately, the mind is a very weird place, topics and topics
keeps getting in and it feels I never had a true moment of silence. Thoughts
like this gets me anxious and I always end up drowning in self-hatred.
LXVII
I reached my favorite bench and sat down. I gazed at the beautiful
picturesque, the white building, the big boats leaving the port and on top of
the hill the beautiful Monument of the Martyr's with its night lights of green
and red and white. I started to really investigate why I am feeling so depressed
lately I had various answers from self-hatred to routine and everything in
between, it is a lot of options but I have never felt this depressed before I have
to do something about it.
'May I say something?'
'No you may not. You are one of the reasons I am feeling down. Now thinking
about it, you are the bad voice inside my head always judging and teasing.
''What is up with that haircut mate. God your skin looks so awful, you have
spots all over your forehead and your nose is so big. You are so ugly. You look
like an asshole. Why are you smiling at her you never smile in real life? Oh
god is that your voice, you sound terrible mate. You know what you should do,
you should nail your front door shut and wait till you bloody die..." Should I
continue reminding you? Now, I am thinking about this I finally know what to
call you, how's Mr. Not Good Enough sounds like? You appear in disguise as
the voice of reason, the voice of common sense or the wise philosopher but
when I stop and I think about it for a second, I realize all you ever told me is
that I am not good enough.'
'Well that sounds bloody awful and I have no response for that. Oh look at this I am
still talking. I see you are losing the so called control you believed you had, Oh
please. You have no control whatsoever over me and I know that name you just
called me with, will not be around for long.'
'I am essential, I am necessary, I am vital. You cannot get rid of me and that is not
just my words, you see English philosopher Simon Critchley also said that. He
thinks that the self has two parts; the part we experience a.k.a. you and the little
voice who plays many roles a.k.a. me. He also thinks that little voice will never
fully go away. He doesn't mean that you can never be happy or satisfied; a person
can learn how to have a better relationship with himself which I strongly suggest
for you to do so. Trust me, you don't want to mess with me and you can believe
that.'
LXVIII
'Well that sucks, because most of the time you are a complete asshole and you
just can't stop talking for god sake. Just stop talking for once. Just shut up. It
is really hard to shut you up. And by the way, you can throw your philosophy
on me as much as you want; trying to hit me with this Split Mind Theory
where we criticize and give ourselves certain rules and standards and hold
ourselves to them won't work. Plus, you already know I don't understand
Immanuel Kant, I don't think I will ever do so you can save your breath. I am
curious though, where do you come from? Where do you even get your ideals
from? Because Simon Critchley pays attention to this question but mainly
when it plays the role of moral conscience. I want to know what happens to
you, my other self, when you start to act like a complete asshole? Or start
telling me lies and bad things? That's what I really want to explore. That' why
I want to answer those few questions because you Mr. Not Good Enough, you
are not playing the role of a moral conscience; which you are perfectly capable
of doing by the way. Instead, you are highly critical and to be honest just an
unkind fuck. You keep calling me those names and all.'
'Because you are, ugly-face.'
'What the fuck is wrong with you? You see, you do this quite a lot and it is
very demoralizing. When I look back at all of this I see half the time when I
was really at my lowest hitting rock-bottom, you were telling me I am good
enough, I am doing fine, you always wanted me to stay down. The other times,
you always make me think and see myself from the perspective of somebody
who really hates me, you transform into my arch enemy. You always lie and I
want to get to the bottom of this. I know you are not going to help me. But I
will learn how to shut you up and I will get to the bottom of all of this.'
'You are right I am not going to help you at all. Good luck in your quest, you will
fail like always by the way. I am telling you, you will never get rid of me. You
should just accept whatever I choose to say, whenever the fuck I want to say it and
that's it. I mean do you remember even a moment when I wasn't there?'
'We both know I won't accept that. You see; you disappear every time I am
with Maissa. Well, also remember when we went to Włodawa that small town
in the eastern Poland borders that's beautiful town. It was so snowy that day
and I remember when I got there with my friends, and we saw how small and
empty the town is; you started screaming that I came here for nothing and I
LXIX
have just wasted my time coming. But then we started walking through the
woods so near the river that separated Poland from Belarus; the river was
calm and cold, the trees were all filled with snow, and then we saw hundreds of
ducks forming the most beautiful image. My friends and I tried to lit up a fire,
we smoked and we were so bloody cold. I was so happy at that time. I had a
cigarette, music, good company and one of the most beautiful views I have
ever seen. I realized then how you lie about mostly everything. I realized that
the trip was so worth it. And for like a two short hours I was lost in beauty
without you. I am planning to get rid of you as I did back then.'
'It is true, I think it is one of the reasons people look at art or create it. It is
something that happens that pulls you into the present moment and just make
people focus on that experience, whether it is sunsets, a painting, a piece of music ,
a good book..., or gazing into the eyes of a loved one. It shuts the inner critique for
a second. I know that's why you have been meditating quite a lot because it gives a
similar experience. You are failing to mention that all of this is temporary quieting
so I am not worried at all. You will simply never win the war I can allow you to win
a battle or two but never the war.'
'Perhaps, you are right and I will never win but be sure I can create and
develop this sense of flow, enjoyment and a great pleasure in the day-to-day
pursuit. If all my pursuits of getting rid of you failed miserably, I will come for
you. I will change you completely and you can believe that.'
I got back to the present moment and I realized it is Fajr time already, the sun
is about to rise. I decided to stay and see the sunrise. As it was going up it hit
the water in just the right way that turned the whole sea into this incredible
mild orange gold color. It was like an ocean of autumn. I realized that I have
been sitting here for a while now and I haven't even bothered to appreciate
this beautiful view I am seeing. I am realizing that getting rid of him won't be
easy at all. I sensed I was getting angry and frustrated even though I am here
seeing this amazing view, feeling some sort of alive and still cannot help but get
angry. This is going to be really hard.
LXX
I opened my Instagram and wrote a text to Maissa, I just can't deal with the
fact that I am not with her right now. I am constantly missing her. My heart is
aching. I cant wait any longer. I told her how much I miss her and how lucky I
am to know her. I sent her a link of a song called -Do I Wanna Know by Arctic
Monkeys. I got up and headed back to the apartment, still hoping tomorrow
will be better.
LXXII
Chapter X:
Darkness, My Old
Friend.
I have been laying in bed for the last two weeks. And all I have done is
drinking coffee, smoking tons of weed, eating as little as possible and listening
to melancholic black metal. I didn't talk with my parents for almost a month, I
haven't responded to Maissa's texts or calls. I am also skipping college and
whenever the phone rings, it gives me a little heart attack. My friends didn't
really thought about what I am going through that much, they just thought I
am having another bad mood which led to this terrible two weeks phase of
sitting around, but it is more than. There was no way anyone seeing me laying
there could have known what I was feeling. No way they could have handled
the strange hell I was living through, or why death seemed such a
phenomenally great idea. I remember I was stunned that I am still alive after
these dreadful two weeks. I know that sound melodramatic, but depression
and anhedonia only give you melodramatic thoughts to play with. Anyways,
there was no relief. I wanted to be dead. No, that's not quite right. I didn't
want to be dead, I just didn't want to be alive. I thought about telling the
Police that I am a Soul. I thought that would be easier for a brief moment, but
then I thought I could end up down in a research facility to be experimented
on. After all, there hasn't been a single Soul in 5 years.
I have always talked about how comforting and not so scary the idea of being
dead because death is the answer to my entire existential crisis questions. Boy
I was wrong. Death is so scary when you encounter it, the idea of dying scared
the hell out of me that day, but that didn't stopped me from wishing and
longing to be dead. I thought a lot about what if I was never been born, the old
classic wish to be one of those people who have never been born. To be one of
those three hundred million sperm that hadn't made it. But then I
remembered I wasn't even born the old classical way. I didn't want to be
LXXIII
happy at all. I just wanted to feel the absence of this suffering. My mind was
on fire, my thoughts blazed and smoked like old possessions burned to the
ground and all I wanted is to escape them.
That stupid inner voice jerk never stopped talking. He made it feel that I am
descending into madness, which I believed back then. He made me do crazy
things and he almost annihilated me. You see last night I went to the roof of
my building; the 12th floor. I climbed the stairs and opened the little tight
hatch. The air smelt like pine and the sea. If I look closer I could see the water.
I imagined the edge of this building is right there, only few steps away from
the sea. No more than twenty steps. The only plan I had was to take twentyone steps in that direction. He decided that. At that moment taking the first
step, I felt like the roles have been reversed. It felt I had no control on my body
at all. I couldn't stop my legs. All I could do is count the steps my body was
taking. Nineteen, and I managed to stop. I sensed a strange sensation inside
my head. Some biological activity in the rear of my skull, not far above my
neck. The cerebellum. A pulsing or intense flickering, as though a little
monster was trapped inside and wanted to get out, combined with a tingling
sensation. I thought I was about to die. My heart started to go as I am looking
down. I took another step. I couldn't control any of my movements. It felt like
I sank inside my body. This body who is now a stranger to me.
'Don't chicken out. Just stop fighting this. Let it go and I will take it from here. I
could stop all of this by simply taking another step. Just stop fighting this, you know
you cannot beat me. A single step versus the pain of being alive. Don't be afraid
about jumping and not dying. Don't worry I will make sure you won't end up
paralyzed. I will make sure you and the entirety of your existence is smacked into a
sidewalk.'
A thought of my loved ones flashed inside of me. I wondered if they will
understand me. At that moment, I wished I never had anyone. They didn't
know what it was like, what was my mind like. Maybe if they were in my head
for a while they would understand. They would be like: "Oh we understand,
yes you should jump. There is no way you should feel this amount of pain, Just
jump. Or give me a gun I will shoot you." But that was not how it worked,
when you are depressed your pain is invisible. I looked down and I spotted a
cat. The cat reminded me of my seven cats back home. Cats don't kill
themselves, they are survivors. I wanted more than anything to be that cat I
LXXIV
was looking at. Death right there felt so close, I wondered if there is a universe
where I would take this step, I wondered if this one is.
I slowly started to gain control back over my body and I was able to take a
step back. I looked back and I threw up almost instantly. I felt all the tons of
weed I smoked and every sweet I ate coming out of my body.
'Coward.'
I felt a weird tingling sensation in my hands and feet, I was unable to move my
fingers for couple of minutes. In a weird way, the throwing up helped me gain
more control of my body and I now I am grateful I guess for the ton of weed I
had.
'Do you know that suicide kills more people than stomach cancer, domestic abuse,
gun assaults, cirrhosis of the liver, colon cancer, breast cancer and the Alzheimer's
all together. It is a disease so bad that people are killing themselves because of it,
in a way they do not kill themselves with any other illness. The bizarre thing people
still don't think depression is that bad. Like Arthur Schopenhauer said:" We should
always be mindful of the fact that no man is ever very far from the state in which he
would readily want to seize a sword or poison in order to bring his existence to an
end."'
'I don’t care, shut the fuck up?'
I laid on my back and started to breathe slowly.
'Do you know that suicide is technically illegal here. If you get caught attempting it
like now you can be arrested. As in, handcuffs, threatened by the cops, and thrown
in the back of an ambulance. Fun right. You can even be imprisoned in a psych
ward if you are "a danger to yourself" and many people who experienced stuff like
this and chickened out describe those conditions that are more like punishment
than care. So get up, let us finish what we started.'
'Ahh let me catch my breath but thinking about it, I think I want to continue
living for the time being. Perhaps Camus was right, in the end one needs more
courage to live than to kill himself.' The stars filled the sky, it was such a
beautiful night sky.
LXXV
'You think you want to continue living. Is that your answer? I mean you can't even
decide what you want for dinner. Let me answer questions like this.'
'Do you think I am mentally ill? Because that is the term the government and
the doctors use when someone tries to kill himself. They make a connection
that everyone who tries to kill himself must be mentally ill; therefore, the
government or the doctors can decide for you because you don't know what's
good for you anymore?'
'I don't think that every suicidal attempt, whether its results a death or not is
necessarily a sign of insanity or mental ill.'
'You are bringing the subject of rationality, I mean right now? Right now?'
'Yeah, I mean do you know French philosopher Franz Fanon was a
psychiatrist treating Algerian patients during the French colonization in
Algeria? Those patients happens to choose to kill themselves rather than to
return to their lives. He realized that there was no point making them better
when the main problem is in their lives, the fact that the French were
occupying their lands and torturing them.'
'Also, a lot of people killed themselves as a sign of protest for the injustice like
the Buddhists monks in 1963, or people who killed themselves because of the
government neglect on their life conditions. There is a lot of examples out
there. You know?'
'Of course I know.'
'It is just an example that most people do kill themselves but because of
rational thinking they reached that conclusion, they actually think about it.
They are not mentally ill.'
'Are you trying to imply that what you almost did was based on rational thinking? I
am with you, you are not mentally ill, because if you are that means I am too.
Maybe we are who knows? Who cares? Let us just finish what we have started.'
LXXVI
'Some people care, I guess I care. Sometimes.' I continued gazing at the
beautiful night sky. I grabbed my Marlboro Red packet from inside my jean
jacket and I lit one up.
'All I am saying is that this attempt doesn't fit the normal pattern of what is
thought to be a mental illness, because this doesn't really impair my normal
functioning. For years now I have been thinking about death almost everyday,
so this isn't new for me. Don't get me wrong I still hate the shit out of you, I
still think you are pure evil, and I still feel like I am stuck in a tiny, hot, tight
place. But I know if I can be brave enough I can still make it somehow. I am
starting to hate when I read a good novel and it says THE END by the end of
it, or when people say it. I think I will start using TO BE CONTINUED
instead.'
A mixed of feelings of gratitude and compassion rushed through my chest; for
the sky I am seeing right now, the place where I am now, and the people I have
in my life and a lot more. I realized then that this night is not the end. This
night have made things to continue.
'I am not that evil.'
'That what you got from that? I have been talking for what it feels like an
hour. I wonder why you are so evil to me, I mean you are supposed to be on
my side after all I am you.'
'The question of Evil always alluded us. Do you really want to bring this up now?
No wonder I am evil to you I mean listen to yourself and what you are saying.'
'I just want an answer to this. Why are you so evil? You are driving me
insane.'
'Well I don't know what to say. I mean if we start questioning this then we will end
up asking why there is evil in the first place. And if there is a god who is indeed an
omniscient, omnipotent and omnibenevolent then why evil exists? Both the human
evil and the nature one, why?'
'I know and I don't want to talk about that precisely. I mean I know that evil
exists and it is the lack or absence of goodness. And we can interpret this in
LXXVII
many ways. The Muslims or the Christians may say that evil is the work of
Lucifer, or it is driven solely by man's wickedness but the latter will raise
another question and takes us to the same route that these actions originate
with Satan or it is an absence of the good. Whatever the answer is, it doesn't
matter I suppose, what I know is that evil is highly immoral and it is motivated
by bad factors. I mean yeah of course we all did stupid bad things, but I never
did something that really hurt people. So I wonder now why are you pure evil
to me?'
'Well I won't answer that because after all I am you. Evil is so widespread and if I
can paraphrase German philosopher Hannah Arendt who argued that evil is not
driven solely by wickedness and malevolence but are cause by human faults. She
says that evil is banal or ordinary.'
'I knew you will throw "The Banality Of Evil" right on my face. I know what
you mean, and I know that Arendt is not saying that the evil perpetrated by
Hitler, Stalin or Genghis Khan is forgivable or anyway ordinary but rather
that those evil deeds are human in character.'
'It is an uncomfortable truth. So perhaps evil is not exclusive to select few
individuals but rather evil is something we can all fall to. It is the product of human
and consciousness condition. So simply I am a part of you, which happens to be
evil. There are no beautiful surfaces without a terrible depth Nietzsche said that.'
I gave up on the conversation and I decided to head down back to my room. I
knew I will have to really think and figure a way to handle this another part of
me but how do I take off a mask when it stops being a mask. When it is as
much part of me as I am? I lit another cigarette on my way down and as I
reached my room, I realized that I escaped the conversation without much
trouble, and without me even realizing it. Perhaps I can do more of this.
Perhaps there is a bigger part of me who want to hold on. I wanted to lay
down and just read like always. I had always considered myself a person who
liked books. But there is a difference between liking books and needing them.
Books are Class A addictive substance. I think I read more books in these six
months than I had done during mu three years so far in college. I certainly
had fallen deeper into the worlds conjured on the page of a book. I opened the
LXXVIII
door and I found my friends playing Dominos. I put on some old classic
Algerian music and joined them.
LXXIX
"...Once the storm is over you won't
remember how you made it through, how
you managed to survive. You won't even
be sure, in fact, whether the storm is
really over. But one thing is certain.
When you come out of the storm you
won't be the same person who walked in.
That's what this storm is all about."
 -Haruki Murakami,
 Kafka on the Shore.
LXXXI
Chapter XI: The
Calm after the
Storm.
There is always the potential of conflict. That is what I am learning about
myself. We all go through different narratives in life and like in any story
conflict will be there. I realized that this person who is living with me inside
have a different narrative, different values and different perspectives. I am all
supportive to some conflict or some level of adversity and criticism but going
insane is not one of them.
'Don't forget you are a wreck. You are addicted to worrying, even if everything is
going alright you invent new reasons to worry. Like what is happening with you
and Maissa. You will screw things up I know it.'
It has been almost a month since I tried to end my life. I went on a trip last
week to the eastern parts of Algeria; it reminded me how beautiful the world
is. It made me think how funny and how sad it would have been, because if I
went through with what happened on that rooftop I would have never seen
those beautiful views. I would have never appreciated or felt the things that I
have felt there. I would have never had this feeling of gratitude right now.
Although the war is still there inside my head, I am starting to bounce back
from all of this. I realized that traveling makes the war go away but
unfortunately, I can't travel all the time, I need to find another solution.
Yesterday the war inside was intense, it didn't allow me to sleep much. I knew
running away from this won't help at all. I need to face this or nothing will
change. I am still in my bed still searching for a way to deal with this battel
because I knew if I am doing this it will be tough.
LXXXII
I realize that if I am going to face this thing inside, I need to do this right. I
must put all of my efforts today in just that. I opened my eyes and stared at
the ceiling. 'You got any suggestion? I want to destroy you today.'
..........
'Look who is quite. I thought you loved to talk.'
'I do but only when I choose to.'
'Maybe you can do a dopamine detox. I will make sure nothing will distract you or
allow you to run from your real self.'
'How generous of you. But a full day without technology, work, exercise,
reading or listening to music? I wonder if you are tricking me.'
'Maybe you can add no sugar too. I don't want you to escape to food. I mean why
not? Your whole life feels like a series of experiments anyway.'
'I mean it is going to be tough. I will be facing a lot of things like my fear of
boredom, the maddening feeling of not getting anything done and not doing
my routine which is an escape from you. Damn.'
I got up, I made coffee and I realized how hard it is not to do the usual
morning routine. I almost put music on, but I didn't and the voices just kept
coming. I decided to do an one hour meditation session. I don't know if this
counts as an escape but I couldn't handle the noise inside. I needed to
concentrate on something else and I thought perhaps my breathing will do.
After a good one-hour meditation session, I went to the balcony and gazed at
the clouds. I sat there for a long time. At least that what it felt like but
apparently time is standing still. It is only 11 a.m. and I am getting mad
already.
'Perhaps time doesn't pass anyway. Have you ever thought about it? I mean let's
think about the word "here", there is no property of "here-ness" right? if one can
say. Therefore, you are here in your balcony, and someone is there outside. The
world "here" is what philosophers call indexical. A word whose meaning changes
depends on who uses it.'
LXXXIII
'What the hell are you talking about?'
'For us our bedroom is "here" and your mother's is in her place "there" but for her
is the other way around. that's how the word works. So what I am saying perhaps
time doesn't even pass, the present is like the word HERE, an indexical. And past
and future are like the word THERE. The present perhaps just refers to the bit of
time where we are, but in fact all times exists equally. Do you get what I mean?'
'I will stick with I am just bored to death and time feels like it is standing still.
Thank you very much.' I realized that I need to figure out a way to escape this
boredom. It is making me angry.
'Agh! I am bored to death.'
'Oh let's talk about it, can we? Maybe we can figure it out together.'
'That's seems odd. You never ask, I mean you always just jump into it. Are
you experimenting on me? Or what are you doing exactly?'
'Don't be paranoid. I just want to help. I think we should put what happened
between us behind us and start a new page.'
'Boredom is so awful it feels almost like it physically hurts sometimes, you
know? I mean I am so bored to the point that I am discussing boredom with
myself. I feel like I need to stay busy and do my routine but I know that
staying busy is just another way to remain distracted and to fulfil this desire to
be productive. While not necessarily accomplishing anything at all. God!
Wouldn't it be great if there was no feeling of boredom?'
'Perhaps it would be good. However, I think boredom is a way to make us engage
in different things in life like exciting projects and activities or creative endeavors.
To find things to do because there is a difference between engaging intentionally in
life and finding random shit to fill time with. I mean think about it, right now
because of this itching feeling of boredom your mind is going to work sorting,
connecting and imagining just to find a way to engage in something. Boredom
pushes us to do stuff.'
LXXXIV
'So what you are saying is that perhaps it is not a bad idea to let my mind do
its natural thing; to wander and roam.'
'Yes, and to watch it with curiosity. Hell! you can even bring a pen and paper to
write down things that seem interesting. I think the best ideas out there happened
when the people who had them were doing boring mundane things. Think about it,
some of the best ideas we had were when we were doing the dishes, or when we go
on autopilot and we teleport thousands of kilometers away to the experiences we
had in the past. Or to the different scenarios that we imagine would happen in the
future that perhaps will never exists beyond the borders of our imagination. So
perhaps, the more we open ourselves to boredom the more creative ideas we will
receive. I really think boredom has a role to play when it comes to deep work,
creativity and finding our flow.'
I realized that by just sitting here in the balcony is giving me space to think. I
mean I have been living here In Algeria for my entire life. I lost that sense
of gratitude, wonder and excitement about Algiers and other beautiful cities in
this country. Nevertheless, by just sitting here and seeing all this life outside is
making all those emotions I lost come back a little. I feel I needed this to
disconnect from everything, to rest. I got back in, I took a shower and I had a
long restful nap, I didn't sleep like this in years. I woke up and felt completely
rested. When I wake up, I usually feel pain in my back and sometimes tired! I
usually wake up after 6 or 7 hours of sleep tired. So feeling rested like this
really increased my feeling of gratitude of today. It was 03.22 p.m. I realized I
didn't eat a thing since maybe 20 hours ago and I feel insanely good. I went for
a walk in the park and met some friends there. We had a great conversation
where I felt completely present in the moment and clear mentally. I got back
home. I did some more meditation and had dinner. I tried to really focus on
my eating, the way I hold the fork that it is going slowly toward my mouth. I
tried to focus on how I chew, and the flavors inside my mouth.
Time passed quite rapidly and it is already 09:30 p.m. I went to bed with a cup
of coffee, and I had this strange feeling of anger. It is really strange how my
mood can shift dramatically and so quickly without even a simple warning. I
felt an enormous amount of rage that I couldn't help but get so bloody angry. I
tried to focus on my breathing. But every breath I take is a reminder of how
easily my mood can change, which led to breathing aggressively and without
even realizing it I am holding my pillow on my face screaming my fucking
LXXXV
lungs out. I held so much inside for these past months now thinking about it, it
feels like I had no reactions at all. I lit a cigarette and I wept. I cried my eyes
out for a good 20 minutes. The crying helped take off a little bit of my rage,
but as soon as I remember this I feel I am getting mad at myself again. I think
I really need help, but I looked on this empty small apartment that I am living
in and I knew that nobody can help me unless I figured this on my own.
'I wanted to laugh at you a little but I couldn't help but get a weird sense of
empathy and compassion. I think I am broken too ha-ha. Let's talk it will get your
mind off things.'
'As much as I appreciate you trying to help, I think I will just try to sleep
perhaps tomorrow will be better. After all, whenever I talk to you I feel like I
am losing the sense of what is real and what isn't.'
I thought about calling or texting my girlfriend. Just after my incident I pulled
up my guts, I finally asked her out, and she said yes.
'I still cant believe it too. The idea of a guy like you is with a wonderful being like
her is beyond my understanding.'
After all she is my favorite human and I can't think of anyone else I'd rather
talk to but her. I decided not to, I am in such a mess I am afraid my anger will
slip out in our conversation. I thought about her and I focused. As I focused on
her image on that beautiful face, her display on my mind grew more vivid and
my anger started to blur out. Her beauty alone was enough to calm my soul
while simultaneously rocking the earth that I stand on. But still, she wasn’t
maddening due to her to her beauty. She was maddening because it was just a
fraction of what she was. You see everything she said was perfect even the
cracks in her voice came out right. Her gestures, everything she did was
perfect. She had grace, and charm and style like no other girl that I have seen
before. When she smiled it would break me in half and at the same time give
me life like I have never felt before. I smiled and felt the sense of gratitude
again.
'Do you have any thoughts about why I have these episodes of anger all of the
sudden? I mean how is it possible that I can be both angry and yet unaware of
LXXXVI
the causes of my annoyance?' I asked as I thought by making a conversation it
may lead me to go to sleep.
'It is possible after all. We are bad at keeping close tabs on the origin and nature of
many of our feelings. We can laugh deeply and struggle to explain exactly why
something has set us off. Same thing can happen when we get angry, sad or
nostalgic. We can find something beautiful or not without having any ,secure hold
on the detailed mechanics of our responses. Understanding all of that can be very
hard, and sometimes we have to trail far behind to do that. Sometimes it can be too
painful and guilt-inducing to acknowledge that we are feeling furious or
vengeful so I am glad you are acknowledging that. You need to be careful about the
things that trigger you even the small things. No no especially the small things. We
learn not to pay attention to these things that we regard as small and insignificant
because we imagine ourselves strong and above being slighted by small petty
injuries; injuries which wound us substantially just the same as the big ones.'
'I do get what you mean. This may be the-weird-mood-I am-having talking but
thanks. All the crying made me feel this strange sensation, don't mind me.'
'No it's alright. After all, all these emotions you are feeling made me feel this
strange sensation too. We may not be so different after all.'
'Actually, a good cry can be helpful most of the times. Perhaps to get rid of this
anger slash depressive mood is to realize that maybe cheerfulness isn't right now
the alternative. Perhaps mourning.'
'Mourning?'
'Yes, perhaps a focused kind of grief over a kind of loss of our ability to control our
moods which can lead to moving on. Or perhaps you can throw a little absurdist
smile to all of this, and add a sense of wonder and amazement of all of what these
particles which are us can produce. Becoming conscious of all of these emotions
can decisively change our bad mood. You can sleep now and tomorrow will be
better.'
Sleep came suddenly, I drank a full cup of water. I felt I haven't drank water
in a very long time. I closed my eyes and I realized that I will never be done
with the business of knowing myself. This thought didn't scare me.
LXXXVIII
Chapter XII:
Beautiful things.
I am in my head again. I am having an insatiable desire to get stoned again. I
remembered that I have a gram or two of OG Kush back at my place and that
thought alone scared me. I know that I will cave in at some point this year, but
I promised myself just after I got down from that rooftop to stop for at least
for six months. It has only been five weeks. My suicidal thoughts are not
coming at me like that used to. I'd like to believe that I am getting better, that
I am healing but I learned that I can't be sure about that. I still have suicidal
thoughts popping out from time to time. Like the one I am having right now
while I am standing here waiting for the train to come. Platform Five can be
the last place. The train is coming; everybody is stepping back a little. Just one
step that step that I have failed to take back then. Everything can cease to exist
in a blink of an eye. Just one more step. It felt everything is going real slow
and there is almost no sound at all. That's what it felt like in a crowded train
station. That's what it felt like while listening to 'Ghost walking' by Lamb Of
God. No sound at all. I stepped back like I did hundred times before and
entered the train. I just bought a cheap nude painting; everyone in the train is
looking at it and looking at me at the same time. Two naked bodies one of
them is smoking. It is not a Mateja Petkovic good but it is still quite alright. I
wondered why it was on sale. On an empty street downtown Algiers. I sat
down and my mind took me where I was just an hour ago. In college sitting on
a bench with her. It is my mind's and soul's favorite place; with her. Two
worlds colliding. The mixture of the past, the present and the future in
seconds. Creating future memories to happen right now. I grabbed my
notebook and I wrote down 'Small Beautiful things.' Beautiful things like her
smell that it is still on my cloths, like her breath that it still on my neck and
like her kiss that I can still taste. Beautiful things like these small heart shaped
paper that she made me so I can put it on my notebook, like a funny language
that we created for fun but now it became part of how we talk. I have been
tormented by the thought should I tell her? I know she would understand but
LXXXIX
it is a hard thing to grasp. Even though I am as human as one can get but I
still have A.I instead of my brain. I still can't have children. I am still a threat
to people like the government says. I have been making a list named ''reasons
to stay'' on my notebook and I have been trying to write things down every
day. I wrote down her and beautiful things. Today Beautiful things that is her
have saved my day. My mind lately have been daydreaming about her a lot.
Everything I see and everywhere I look, it reminds me of her. How would I
avoid all of these things? Or is it too late for me? It feels like I am lost in
various worlds except when I am with her talking to her. It is the only world I
want to be lost in.
I got back to my apartment, lit a cigarette and hanged the painting above my
bed. I am loving the details of this. I don't understand the meaning behind it
but I learned to love mysteries. I am not running to find and put a meaning to
everything anymore. Sometimes meaning ruins beautiful things. I am just
going to look at its fulfilling details. I am enjoying beautiful details, details like
this last puff of my dying cigarette.
'Have you ever wonder why we see things like this beautiful? I mean what is
beauty? What makes a thing beautiful? I mean is there a link between ugliness and
beauty? Because some people will not see this painting as beautiful.'
'Yeah that's something to think about.' I said as I laid in bed looking at the
painting; The Weeknd is playing in the background.
'And it is not only about paintings. Music, movies, Novels and not only the
controversial ones like Nude paintings, or erotic novels like the ones I read this
week Ada or Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov. I mean every creative endeavor
from creating sculpture, perfumes, painting to photography... et cetera can be
ugly to some people and aesthetically beautiful to others. I wonder why? How
can something be so beautiful to some and hideous to others?'
'I like the ancient idea about beauty is about balance, it goes right back to ancient
Greek philosophers. Like I guess people love symmetrical things which Aristotle
said it is one of the main forms of beauty. It is true we happen to judge people face
and we think a person face is attractive if it happens to be symmetrical.'
XC
'True, but there are all kinds of beautiful asymmetrical unbalanced things.
Paintings, flowers, faces...et cetera and after all these are only our personal
taste. Everyone have a taste of the thing they like. Maybe this balance thing is
just a small factor, maybe it is all about something else desire for example.'
'I knew you would say that. You finished Plato's book where he talks about this and
now you are trying to brag about it in front of me.'
'You know me too well.'
'Yeah I get what you mean. After all some people desire those paintings and other
things and some people simply don't. So yeah perhaps there is a link between desire
and beauty. But a desire for what exactly? That's the question. Maybe these
paintings or erotic novel writers like Nabokov can provide an answer. I mean look
at this painting. It is well painted it certainly looks like real images of people, the
light and shadows in it looks absolutely magnificent. Moreover, let us not forget the
guy that is touching that woman's naked body from behind; she is smoking a
cigarette so that's also a nice detail as well. So It has erotic scenes. Hmmm. So
horny scenes like this are about sexual desire.'
'Yeah but its purpose not only that. Not only sexual desire. I mean we can look
at it from different perspective not only graphic sex you know. The painting is
beautiful but I have a thought that perhaps it is about the artist who happens
to be a lover describing the person who is so in love with. He is drawing a
sincere passionate moment he had with his lover, he is drawing every detail of
that woman. Every beauty mark, every scare, every line in the face, and every
curve. He simply adores every single bit of that moment and if we look at it
from this perspective it is damn good. I mean even philosophers talked about
erotic paintings like this who suggested that the essence of the erotic is not just
about being explicit but mostly about feelings and the sense of touch, wonder,
heat, pressure and breath...et cetera. What I am saying is that perhaps beauty
is about desire, and erotic desire happens to be a very strong component in all
of this. But it is a bit disappointing I mean is that all?'
'I don't think it is all about that. I mean a person for example can say ''That is a
beautiful person'' without erotic desire you know? So I don't really think everything
is about sex.'
XCI
'Perhaps you are right. Now thinking about it ancient Greek philosopher Plato
was interested in the connection between beauty and desire where he wrote
one of the famous dialogues ever The Symposium. So, Plato actually thought
or Socrates thought, sometimes I can't tell who is Socrates and who is Plato if
you know what I mean. Plato thought it is more to it than just you know....
Sex.'
'In the symposium, Aristodemus who I believe was an advocate of
sapiosexuality said that love is both the love of the body and the love of the
mind meaning: intelligence and goodness. The other character Aristophanes
suggested that when humans were created they were created into three
genders: male, female and non-binary. Back then he said that everybody had
two faces, four legs, four hands So basically it's like two people mixed
together. He claimed that this early human form was so powerful that the
Greek God Zeus cut them all in two, so that's the reason of our desire to look
for beauty and love. That's why we are always looking for our other half.'
'Can I finish the story? You know I love Socrates.'
'Sure, go ahead.'
'Then Socrates gets up and he disagreed with them all. Typical Socrates. He said
love is the love of something, the desire for something we lack. It is neither
beautiful nor ugly, neither divine nor mortal but a mixture of the two. From my
understanding, he suggested that that is the reason why we look for beauty. He
knew that beauty is found in almost everything, and when realizing this he said you
would ultimately know that the higher beauty is in the soul not the body. You would
also realize that the higher love is in the abstract idea of raw beauty. Of course we
can look the other way in various religious texts where they suggest to just
appreciate beauty but with no desire whatsoever is a better way. Letting go of
desire they claimed is a way to reach a state where we don't want anything, ergo
happy with life just accepting life as it is.'
'I still don't understand a lot of concepts in The Symposium but perhaps
beauty lies in contemplation as well as desire. But the weird thing is that Plato,
Socrates even Kant or Burke suggest that contemplation or the sublime as
they call it is higher and even better than just regular beauty.
XCII
I mean how? I am not a hedonist but I mean imagine being deprived of the
company or the touch of your lover; all those things that makes life
pleasurable, enjoyable and just amazing you know. I don't ever think I will be
satisfied only by contemplation maybe that's not the point but I mean who
would. About the religious thing, I don't know dude, life without desiring
anything doesn't seem my idea of a beautiful fulfilling life. Not looking and
desiring for anything seems to me even worst. There is an absurd amount of
theories about this, which if you follow it will lead you all the way to the top to
the main question of the meaning of life. Life is all about seeking happiness
and trying to do things that makes us happy, perhaps Camus was right: the
only way to live is to confront the absurd and keep living anyway as an act of
rebellion. He said seeking beautiful things like art, pleasure, desire, comfort is
a way to preform this act of rebellion. So perhaps it is all about finding these
beautiful things in this weird world where we most likely won't find any
answer to our big questions and just hold this beauty we see and feel and enjoy
it. Exactly like this beautiful painting I am looking at because after all
beautiful things in a weird world can remind us to keep desiring, it gives us a
reason to keep on living.'
XCIII
I glanced on through the window and the sun is already setting. I grabbed a
Marlboro cigarette from my jacket and put on Fkj playlist. I noticed that my
desire for smoking weed was completely gone. It feels like it got replaced by
this sensational desire of looking at beautiful things. Like this amazing sunset
and this creamy orange sky, it is just so beautiful. I added sunsets to my
notebook and It just felt good. I missed this it has been a while. I grabbed the
weed I was hiding and flushed it down the toilet. The voice inside is getting
softer on me. It doesn't feel like an issue to me; at least that's what I am feeling
about it this week. That is what I am hoping for anyway. I think we are done
fighting and we are in a kind of truce at the moment. Nevertheless, one thing
for sure it feels so freaking weird that I am feeling grateful for the
conversation we just had, I can't remember the last time I felt like this. It is So
freaking weird.
XCV
Chapter XIII: To
Us, Sincerely.
07 a.m. my alarm is ringing. I woke up as soon as it rang. Official classes
are finally here. I am excited for college, autumn, philosophy lectures and
more. After all, I am finally moving away from an entire dreadful negative
summer that I had. I don't think I will ever forget that period of time, it was
indeed very hard and very suicidal and I don't have a single clue what's the
future is holding for me. Although it is very hard to make this shift of mind, I
am still trying to think positively. And believe it or not Mr. Not Good Enough
is actually helping me since we had our discussion about a week ago. That is
something I never thought would happen.
I got up, washed my face and stared in the mirror. 'Have you ever had a
feeling where you stare at yourself for too long and feel a slight of disconnect
between your consciousness and your physical being? But then you stare even
more and you think damn I am really in this body, I am in this body, I am this
body… and I look a lot like my dad.'
'I know right! I find this very fascinating. Something for sure is we can't doubt this.
Like Rene Descartes, ''I think therefore I am'' we can't doubt that we are thinking
and staring at the mirror.'
I dressed up, grabbed my coffee, lit a cigarette and went to the car. I put on
some old classic Megadeth on low volume and headed to Bouzereah.
'Damn traffic jam! I have literally never seen this road without traffic jam, ever.'
'I know right! Sartre was partially wrong in his No Exit play. Hell is not other
people. Hell is getting stuck in traffic. It is not bothering me that much, I mean
I have been feeling great lately physically and mentally. Now I think about it,
it seems I can't even remember how I physically felt when I got suicidal. It is
XCVI
weird I know. I mean even when I remember how I felt mentally. I remember
all those fears that I had. Those fears not one of them came true.'
'You are right. When thinking about it, it makes me curious. You were a mess back
then, but now you are getting out more, traveling more, and making goals. You
used to think all those bad stuff all the time but now recognize those are anomalies
that can be addressed. You are climbing out of this depression, and you started that
climb weeks ago. So... What happened? What changed?'
'I don't know man! These suicidal and depressive periods I had were not like a
lightning bolt where you know that you have been hit and you are so damaged.
It is more like a poison that someone slips into your food in little doses, and
you sit down every night and you eat that poison without realizing that it is
building up inside you until you stop functioning. When I stop and I start to
think about it I know that you were that someone and the poison at the same
time.'
'What!! Me? Are you craz...'
'AH AH AH Ah! you don't shout anymore. I am in control. You can't ruin this
good mood I am having. Not anymore. People and psychologist say that people
don't know they are in an abusive relationship when they are in them. We
have some sort of a relationship and it is abusive. I managed to shut you up
when I am meditating, traveling or with my girlfriend or my loved ones and I
thought about it a lot. I thought I deserved it. But man I didn't deserve what
happened.'
I am moving again. It is already 8 a.m. fortunately classes don't start until 9.30
a.m.
'Allow me to bring you back to philosophy 101, where Aristotle said that a
good person isn't only about doing the right thing for the right reasons, but
also having the right virtues. You know bravery, empathy, compassion stuff
like that. You need to have them in the right amount as well Aristotle said. I
XCVII
mean you don't want to be too brave or you will be reckless, you got to have
what he called The Golden Mean. And yes you can even be too loving, or too
kind. Now I am thinking about it, when it comes to you I was too
compassionate. I was constantly dragged by you and your negative talks.
Always saying yes to your negative plans. Let us smoke 2 grams of weed or
let's get into a fight or some stupid other things. You almost killed me. I never
said what I want, never asked for anything that might inconvenience you and
your evil plans for me. All of that went hand in hand with my low self-esteem
because I had been so discouraged by you I thought what I needed wasn't
really worth anything. Like I didn't deserve to be a better version of me. And
like you said I have done the Descartes thing where I doubted everything I
think I know that was causing my deep depression until I found the one
undoubtable and when I found it your discouraging depressive words, words
like "You are worthless, you are nothing..." where all over it. I can't have that
as a foundation of my whole life view. I realized I needed a new philosophy.'
I realized that I am going 150 km per hour. I slowed down, breathed slowly. I
caught myself getting a bit intense so I relaxed. I can't let thoughts like this
dictate how I feel.
'What I did is that I realized all those great opportunities I missed, how many
goals I didn't start because I had swallowed that poison. I felt like I am mind
colonized by you. How many times I turned my back on my girlfriend, family
or friends just because of you. I had to accept that I will never be able get rid
of you so I am changing you. I am changing you to a more my-way kind of
voice. I am breaking the habit of you.
I realize I have to accept that what I have been through can have a lasting
effects. I still have flashbacks sometimes nightmares that can trigger me but it
is getting rarer and rarer.'
'Unbelievably, I am happy for you about this. I am also glad you realize that going
through all of this and recovering isn't like a movie where the protagonist just
learns the lesson and then applies it and go save the day. It doesn't work like that, it
XCVIII
is more like rehearsing a play. You have to keep going over it and over it until it
becomes unconscious and natural. And that exactly what you are doing. Now I
understand your sudden interest, the weird positive affirmations you listen to every
night you go to bed and the shelf that is filled with self-help books besides in your
bedroom.'
'Yeah I realize I still have a lot of distance to go, but the progress is real. I
have changed in these past months since the accident in the rooftop. I am not
the man I was. I mean it is weird the journey of self- discovering, It took me
times to realize that the thoughts I have been having aren't mine per say. I
realized that bad ideas like those I had were so deep within that I thought they
were me, that they were mine. It took a lot of time with the help of my favorite
people and books so I can slowly grow it out. I am still doing it.'
I had a weird pulling sensation that I must go to the sea. I wasn't planning on
skipping my psychology class but I just couldn't help but feel this itch and
desire that I want to go to the sea. I took the first left I saw and headed to the
sea. I called my girlfriend and we decided to meet there in an hour, we are
both skipping apparently. After a while, I reached the sea. I pulled up my car
near the cliff. I stepped out and lit a cigarette.
'Shame man! You made me feel all of those ugly things, which now I know
that were not me. You were supposed to help me, but you didn't. I kept all
what was killing me inside. I got addicted, depressed; I even fucking hated to
smile for god sake. I was in the damn flames. Those times felt like me and
death were tongue-kissing.'
'Actually French-Lithuanian philosopher Emmanuel Levinas talked about this
shame of vulnerability in his book ''On Escape'' where he said that: "shame arises
each time we are unable to make others forget our basic nudity. It is related to
everything we would like to hide and that we cannot bury or cover up... This
preoccupation with addressing to hide ourselves concerns every manifestation of
our lives, our acts, and our thoughts."Everybody is ashamed for this because we
are all vulnerable; we all seek to hide our vulnerabilities from others.'
XCIX
'I have to admit I like this newer version of you. But you should be fair enough
and continue his quote, because we don't hide our vulnerability from other
only. One seeks to hide from oneself as well.'
'Fair enough, Levinas continued and he said: "One seeks to hide from others, but
also from oneself... We see in shame its social aspect; we forget that its deepest
manifestations are an eminently personal matter... the necessity of fleeing, in order
to hide oneself, is put in check by the impossibility of fleeing oneself." I am
guessing that book helped you realize that you can't get rid of me that's why you
are changing me.'
'I would have gone mad if I didn't. I realized that we are all vulnerable. We
always going to get sick, grow old, and make mistakes. We will eventually die.
I realized I need someone outside of me and within me to help me through it
all. This helped me decided that I need to leave that old version of you. I
instantly realized it won't be easy. It is still not easy, it is a battel I have to do
every single day when I get up in the morning and every night when I am
about to fall to sleep. It is hard to leave a part of you, which was there
throughout your whole life. I realize now that we are not two people anymore.
I am you and you are me and when bad days come I WILL BE HERE.'
I went back to the car and I grabbed my notebook. This notebook I wrote in
everyday for five months Reasons to stay. I wrote in it all the things my soul
responded to, whether they were good or bad, up or down, ugly or beautiful,
embarrassing or fulfilling and everything in between. In this notebook, every
single thing that moved my soul is here. I re-read few pages with nostalgic
eyes. I got out of the car. I looked to this beautiful image that I am seeing. I felt
and smelled the air of the sea. I listened to the waves hitting the shore. I looked
down and it was just like what I imagined, when I was on that rooftop and I
pretended that I am jumping off a cliff instead of a building. Nevertheless, this
time I am not even thinking about jumping. I am alive. I looked back and my
girlfriend is coming, she just pulled up. I looked back to the beautiful sea and
threw my notebook. I won't be needing reasons to stay anymore. My soul is
alive. I can breathe. I am alive.
C
I gave Maissa a long hug and as I was hugging her, I noticed a guy looking at
us in a strange way. I felt that I lost the control of my legs. I got scared. The
guy in a black coat is approaching us and I realized that I have seen this face
somewhere. I couldn’t tell where exactly. I immediately grabbed my girlfriend
hand and jumped in my car. She was surprised and asked what happened. I
ignited the engine and drove away as fast as I could. With my rearview
mirror, I saw him looking at my car. Maissa kept saying what is happening
but I kept concentrating on where I have seen that person.
'Fuck Fuck FUCK. I think he knows the truth about us.'
'Fuck! I remember. Your parents' house. He was in your parents' house.'
'Holy shit you are right.' Maissa kept asking who I was talking to and I just
ignored her. I couldn’t focus at all. I apologized and I drove back to her house.
I told her that I needed to do something, that I am very sorry. 'I will explain
everything tomorrow.' I said before I drove away.
CI
NOW.
CII
Djamal flipped the page but the rest of the pages are missing. Someone torn off the
rest of the pages. 'Ah God damn it. Stuff like this always happens to me.' The little
voice inside his head screamed.
He got up from his bed and went down stairs. He found his dad preparing dinner.
'Hey Dad! The book you have gave me to read is missing the rest of the pages.
Why would someone do that?' he said as he watched his dad taste the Rechta.
'Where is Mom by the way?' Djamal continued.
'She is having fun in the wedding and I am here doing this crap. You are a terrible
cook. What are you doing?' the inner voice inside his dad's head yelled in
frustration. 'She is in her cousin's wedding, remember?' his dad said.
'Oh yeah I remember. But what happened to the book you gave me. I want to
finish it.' Djamal asked again.
'I don’t know son. It is an old book. I can't even remember who gave it to me
or when. Just Google the ending or something.' His dad replied. 'Oh you are
going to eat the worst Rechta ever by the way.' He joked.
'Shit.' Djamal put his hand to his face in disappointment. 'Do you know how it
ends?' Djamal asked. His dad shook his head.
'I wonder if the future would be as the book described. But one thing for sure
I am curious about the advance technology we will have then.' Djamal said.
'It is 2020 and people still kill each other, it will be chaos. I hope I would be
long gone before those times.' His dad replied. 'You already lived long enough.
Just stick that knife in your chest already.' the voice added.
'Oh, don’t say that. Maybe it would be alright.' Djamal responded. 'Hopefully
we will be both gone. Sometimes I wish I was dead.' Djamal thought.
Dinner was served and they ate in silence. But the silence is so loud isn't it? Both
inside and out. And It is already the time for you to flip another page once again.
THE END.
CIV
Letters to
Remember Who I
am.
After a deep struggle with myself, against myself I finally picked up that old
typewriter and managed to write this. I do too have an inner voice that drives me
crazy. I know you do too. In my case, it has been three days or more since the last
time I have spoken to him. The other me. I have been writing in the new journal I
got recently just so I can write some thoughts in it about what I learned. Perhaps a
conversation will appear. Is it weird that I miss talking to him? Maybe not. It
certainly feels weird to long for a certain part of you to reappear but perhaps that
part never left. Perhaps it has just changed a little bit. I am in my head again. The
voice inside became natural after long battels. What I am writing is what I am
hearing inside. My thoughts became easy to control... Sometimes.
As I am writing this. My mug of F.R.I.E.N.D.S near me. I am looking through the
window. It is getting darker and the sun has already set. The starts are beginning to
show up. I smiled when I thought of all those things I have been worrying about
when I was depressed. I cannot seem even to remember what I was worried about.
The absurdity is hitting me right in the face. I am looking back to all what has
happened to me and I realized that the bad experiences I went through were
somehow vital. Thanks to what happened I am now who I am. I have a different
perspective towards life now thanks to the other me. In a way, sometimes the worst
experience can be the best thing that happens to you. It is strange to think that
everything that I have experienced so far in my life can be simply described as a
bunch of fleeting moments. Each one is composed of incalculable number of tiny
pieces of the universe falling into place that can never come together again. That
CV
can never be relived again only through me; by my mind. This is all I know and all
I will ever know. A series of instances put together to tell the story of my life,
whether they are bad instances or good ones. That is all I have known. I also find
this knowledge of knowing this is incredible to me; capable of understanding all of
this small pieces shaping my life for me to be here, thinking these thoughts and
speaking these words. I am also fascinated on my level of curiosity about things
like this. Author Sam Wren-Lewis words came to mind where he wrote about
curiosity in his book The Happiness Problem. He wrote:" First, by being curious
we open ourselves up to the potential value of things that would otherwise pass us
by... This is the realm of Beauty. Second, we become more aware of the potential
value of the things we already have... We feel gratitude and contentment. Lastly,
we can respond to the challenges with greater flexibility which means being less
stuck in our habitual way of seeing the world... different perspective."
Curiosity is a reason to stay.
I sensed as if I heard something coming deep from within. It doesn't matter now
because I know that that part of me was me after all. I will never lose that. We all
have voices inside. Many cars are passing down the street. It appears to be for a
wedding. It made me think again about these strings of moments that makes these
snapshots and instances blend into the next moment. Each instance is arriving too
quickly and leaving again before I can grab it. Perhaps it is meant this way to enjoy
every fleeting moment to the fullest. I am conscious enough to know that there is
many things happening beyond the limitations of my infinite awareness. When
feeling love like this about the universe as a whole, and all what is in it, you
discover an appreciation of everything it is. Knowing something so beautiful, so
vast can be felt by the tiny us. At the beginning of any love I only wanted this to
myself but then I started to learn to adore things from threes steps back as well;
unconditioned love is what I am trying to seek. It is great indeed, when the voice
inside teaches you things like this.
I am only 21 years old after all. I am slowing down. I realized that what is even
scarier than death itself is dying having not lived. I am slowing down because this
experience is not meant to go by casually. This experience is gifted to us along with
a body to embrace, a planet to explore and a galaxy to remind us that there is a lot
more that we don't know. I am slowing down trying to embrace every moment. I
am trying to do things that mean well and I am trying to age gracefully. As I am
writing this down; I put on Heartbeats by José Gonzalez and I continued writing
CVI
down on my notebook. I am only human witnessing a million predetermined
snapshots that the universe blend into one another, but I can't help but appreciate
that it is fascinating all the same. An infinite number of events had to take place for
me to be here, and yet here I am. My soul is here right now. Perhaps no one will
read these words but me but your soul is here as well, right now. Within these
fleeting moments, we will cross path with other souls. We will cry, we will laugh,
we will talk and we will miss each other. We will hesitate, we will doubt, we may
even do some stupid things and maybe eventually our path will split again. I am
learning that these moments whether they are meaningful or meaningless are real. I
am collecting these moments that at the end I will find myself reminiscing on. I am
not afraid of the future and I am not overindulging in the past. After all those
moments are only echoes of what I did today. These moments that makes me feel
alive because I am not scared of living anymore. I am alive chasing things that
make me feel alive and if it hurts, at least that's living, right? I learned that
sometimes all you need to do is what American poet Anne Sexton once said:' Put
your ear down next to your soul and listen hard.'

CVII
Writer's note
Depression and other mental disorders are seriously dangerous. Many people look
at depression as just a phase that will eventually go away. It is more than that. In
this book, I talked about depression and various thoughts and accidents that
happened to me, which I am sure most of you have suffered from as well. By being
open and doing different things to get myself up again, I found that I was most of
the times worrying about nothing. Rather than make me feel like a weirdo, being
open to things like this had made me realize how many people suffer from
depression. Just as none of us is 100% physically healthy, no one is 100% mentally
healthy. We are all on a scale.
I have searched a lot about the measures that our country Algeria take to prevent
suicide and besides from only one hotline + 213 983 2000 58 which they rarely
respond to anyway, unfortunately there isn't much. Nevertheless, there is still a lot
of help out there so if you do suffer from depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts,
panic disorders, OCD, or any other issue the best solution is to make sure to talk to
somebody either a psychologist, a friend, a lover, a member of the family, even a
stranger like me would love to help… 1
2
© 2009 1889 Labs Ltd.
This work is licensed under the
Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 2.5 Canada License.
To view a copy of this licence, visit
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.5/ca/
or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San Francisco,
California 94105, USA.
Published by 1889 Labs Ltd.
Visit our website for free books and other fun stuff:
http://1889.ca
For Rie:
Thank you for not hating this.
3
Other Titles by 1889 Labs
Sci Fi and Horror
The Vector
Typhoon
Comedy
Archimedes’ Fish
The Dark Red Lacquer of the Heart
Poke of the Titans
The Man With the Improbable Leg
For Kids
The Pig and the Box
Panda Apples
Maggie’s Cello
Xander and the Wind
4
Table of Contents
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
5
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
NOTES
6
NOVEMBER 21 – 27
01
CHEMNITZ, GERMANY
NOVEMBER 21
Paint peeled off the swing set in the front yard, yellow flakes drifting like sunburnt
snow to dead grass. No wind for some time. The air smelled of rank summer sweat,
still and stagnant, seeping out of the parched soil. There were no birds in the barren
trees.
A nightmare had come to town.
It walked down the road with methodical pacing, long cloak swaying gently with
each footfall. The worn machete on its belt clanked against armoured gloves. No hint
of skin or hair suggested it was human: overlapping layers of cloth, metal and rubber
took care of that. The mask over its face hissed softly, taking in air to process. In every
way, inhuman.
From behind cracks in shuttered windows, anxious eyes watched it pass, breaths
held until it was safely out of sight, superstitiously certain it could smell fear in the air.
There weren’t many to see it this day. Some houses had long-open doors, others were
boarded shut with black paint splashed from afar.
A ghost town, by will or fortune.
The chain fence around number 37 was untouched, a lone tire leaning precariously
against its gate. The closest anyone dared come. From a tiny half-frosted window in
the door, Kurt saw the thing pause at the end of the walkway. He swallowed slowly,
adjusted his view to see better.
It was staring right at him.
7
It rolled the tire away, carefully leaning it against the fence post, and unlatched the
gate. Halfway up the interlocked stone path, the thing stopped, turned, stared at the
cross in the lawn. Four graves beneath its soft shadow, all roughly dug in the cold
November soil. Nothing moved for some time, and Kurt gripped the trim round his
small portal with bloodied fingernails, waiting.
Finally, the thing turned away from the graves, climbed the steps to the porch, and
without a pause, opened the front door. Kurt stumbled backwards into the foyer,
falling against the banister as the dark figure stopped before him.
“Are…” Kurt stammered, his voice weak and creaky. “Are you…”
The thing looked at him without emotion. Air hissed.
“Are you a Healer?” Kurt gasped.
It watched him a moment, then carefully bowed a ‘yes’.
Kurt collapsed down on the steps, covered his head with his frail empty arms, and
began to sob. He heard the soft crunch of thick boots grinding dirt into the Persian rug.
He hesitated, looked up, saw the mask, his reflection in the dark oval goggles. He
looked so worn.
The Healer held out a hand to him, and he took it, stood, let himself be led into the
living room. He sat in his father’s soft armchair, awkwardly, like a stranger in his own
home, being hosted by someone who’d only just arrived.
The Healer sat on the sofa to the right, and removed two cloth packages from a
pouch on his belt: one blue, one black. He placed them gently on the coffee table, and
unrolled the black one to reveal a small plastic device, and an assortment of vials.
Kurt closed his eyes, shuddering.
The Healer put a long vial into the base of the device, clicking it into place. Kurt
studied every move with his arms pulled close to his chest, like a child expecting a shot
at the doctor. When it was time to draw his blood, Kurt’s face was already streaked
with tears.
The Healer didn’t force him, but it was clear there was no escaping it.
Kurt exhaled loudly, held out a trembling arm, and the Healer’s hand gripped his
elbow firmly. A quick sting shot through him as a tiny blade hit, and he yelped, closing
his eyes tightly as his blood filled the vial.
8
His elbow jerked free, a cotton swab pushed against the wound. The Healer slid a
panel down on the device to reveal a small LCD screen.
Kurt looked out the front windows, saw the tip of the cross on the lawn, and just
stared. It was like the room was empty again, and he was alone there, sitting, watching,
waiting for a resolution. Absolution.
The creak of rubber beside him shook the daydream away.
“They… they died because of me?” he asked, not so much a question as a need for
confirmation.
The Healer didn’t shift his gaze from the device, and the callousness of it pushed
Kurt into hysteria: he grabbed the monster’s wrist, thick with metal, shook it, and got
the attention he needed.
“They died because of me!” he shouted.
The Healer placed a hand atop Kurt’s, squeezed gently, and he calmed, his
breathing ragged but slow.
“W-w-was it me?” he whispered.
A moment passed where neither moved, as if the answer had to be read from the
air rather than repeated as fact.
But then, the Healer nodded.
“No!” Kurt screamed, curling against the chair. He cried again, till he had no air in
his lungs at all, and gasped a horrible raspy breath against the floral fabric, like he was
drowning out of water.
He felt the cold tap of metal against his neck, a hiss and a sting, and his eyes shot
open at the shock of it. He pushed his face into the cushions, stopped his theatrics, and
started to mouth a prayer in his few last seconds.
A fire shot through his veins, and he flailed back, onto the floor, and convulsed so
hard he bit the edge off his tongue. He gagged on the blood.
A strong hand pushed down on his chest, keeping him from rolling, and in the
moments before his vision gave out, he saw the Healer over him, an expressionless
mask, watching.
“Not your fault,” it said to him in a rough, processed voice from the darkness.
9
On his way out of the house, the Healer closed the door quietly, respectfully. As he
made his way past the graves, he paused as harsh static struck his ears.
“Home to Green Four,” came a voice, Mandarin Chinese distorted by an overcast
sky, as if spoken through a digital waterfall. “Do you copy, Green Four?”
The Healer took the heavy satellite phone from his belt, unfolded the antenna, then
let it hang by his side again.
“Green Four to Home,” he said, fluent in his native tongue. “Sigma5 is neutralized.”
A pause. Static again.
“Understood,” said Home. “We will send you the co-ordinates of a safe location to
leave the blood sample.”
The Healer nodded to the empty air.
“Your next assignment is identified,” said Home, without a hint of emotion. “You
will be leaving at once.”
The Healer turned west, the afternoon sun nearly invisible in the haze.
“Understood,” he said again.
“Profiles and identification algorithms will be sent to you en route. We have
intelligence indicating a living host at the Motol Hospital in Prague.”
The Healer stiffened slightly as the line devolved to static. He turned around,
straight behind him, and stared into the darkening sky, back where night was already
falling. He turned a bit more, south-east.
“Home,” he said carefully, deliberately. “I am already west of Prague. Please
confirm.”
Static. The faint sounds of a discussion away from a microphone.
“Confirmed, Green Four,” came the reply. “Maps and speaking guides will be
relayed before you cross the border.”
The Healer glanced back towards the setting sun, then stared headlong toward his
objective. A weak wind tugged his cloak, and a speck of rain hit his mask, between his
eyes. His suit whined faintly, warning of moisture contact, gently quieting as the drop
slid down and away. He did not react.
“Understood,” he said once more.
Another raindrop glanced off his shoulder.
10
He was stirred back to life at the sound of the incendiary grenade exploding in the
house behind him. He retracted his steps down the interlocked path, opening the front
gate as the black smoke started to pour out of the windows, and into the sky above. He
left the tire as he’d found it.
11
02
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 26
Another raindrop hit the train’s window and dripped slowly downward. Eva watched
it, her head against the glass, as the sky darkened. She shivered in the cold, pulled her
thinning denim jacket tighter, her arms substituting for the buttons long since torn
from the front. Her tank top was too threadbare and worn for this weather, but she
had no bags, no clothes to change into.
She peered down the side of the train, as far as she could, but saw no movement.
The fields outside were abandoned, half-turned soil waiting for another pass with a
tractor.
“Forty minutes,” she muttered to herself, checking her watch. She looked back the
way they’d come, saw nothing there but hostile sky.
A knock at the door startled her. She sat straight, adjusted her jacket, tried to fix
her poorly bundled hair. The door opened a moment later, and a uniformed officer
with a surgeon's mask entered the suddenly cramped compartment. He took a quick
look around, but seemed bored by the action, like he’d done it one too many times
before.
Eva tried not to move, kept a smile on her face that felt fake no matter how she
adjusted it. The officer made no attempt to establish eye contact, only said gruffly in
Czech: “Ticket. Passport. Photo identification.”
Eva slid a small worn manila envelope from her right breast pocket, holding out
the contents with shaking hands. The officer took the papers and cards, started
running them through his handheld with casual expertise. He nodded towards her
jacket as he worked.
12
“Not the safest place to keep these things,” he said.
“I know,” she said, nodding anxiously.
“Stolen passports go for, what, €65,000 in Barcelona?”
“Eight-five—” Eva began, then stopped very abruptly, and stared at the ground.
She could hear the officer had paused his work. She tried not to shiver during the
awkward silence.
“You should get a better jacket,” he said, and the work resumed.
“I will,” Eva said, relaxing a bit, but still on guard. “It’s been a long trip.”
“I can see that,” he muttered, flipping through the pages of her passport. He turned
it sideways, flicked his eyes over at her, then snapped it shut and slipped it underneath
the handheld while he worked on her health card.
“You look young for twenty-three,” he said, though he wasn’t looking at her.
“Th-thank you.” she stammered.
“It’s not a compliment. Under the circumstances, nothing I say is going to be a
compliment. Let’s see your eyes.”
She looked up at him, nervous. He squinted at her.
“Nice shade of blue. What’s that, azure?”
“I think it’s called brandeis, actually.”
“Really. Never heard of that before. It’s funny, the odd facts and trivia you learn
from these encrypted health cards.”
There was an awkward silence.
“A border guard in Switzerland told me,” Eva said.
The officer cocked an eyebrow.
“What else did he tell you?”
“I looked old for twenty-one.”
The guard smiled at this, but it wasn’t a warm smile. He had very hard features,
and the mask didn't sit well on his face. The metal bridge for the nose was snapped in
half where he'd tried to reshape it too often, and the spaces around the sides fogged
his glasses in slow, steady bursts as he breathed.
“Ms Kolikov,” said the officer, gruffly but wearily, like he was repeating a lecture
for the thousandth time, “your passport is Russian. Your name is Russian. And unless
13
you’re going to claim you’ve been living under a rock until recently, I’m pretty sure you
know the Czech Republic closed its borders over two years ago, especially to our
cousins in Russia.”
Eva lowered her gaze, appropriately chastised. The officer continued. “Unspoken
policy says we don’t even do the small talk with people who carry Russian passports.
Last guy who did ended up dying from boils the size of a fist on his neck, because —
and I don’t mean to generalize — even though you people started it, you still don’t seem
to grasp how big a shitstorm it’s become. Don’t know when to quit. And we’re sick of
trying to make you understand. Like spitting into the wind.
“Now, I could list you about fifteen regulations covering the rights of refugees and
amnesty claimants as they relate to UN containment policies, but the bottom line is
this. I’m fully within my rights to grab you by the scruff of the neck and toss you off
this train before you even have a chance to think of a way to convince me otherwise.”
Eva held her breath. The officer scrolled his handheld briefly.
“This is the part where you convince me otherwise,” he sighed.
“Oh!” Eva stammered. “Well, I used to have dual citizenship, so while I’m not
technically Czech anymore, my mother is. She lives in Prague right now and I—”
“You've been in Paris,” he interrupted.
Eva nodded. “A few years ago. At school.”
“Computer science,” noted the officer.
“No, fine arts,” Eva corrected.
“Says here ‘computer science’.”
“I switched majors.”
He glanced at her again, eyes unflinching.
“Computer science in Paris is all I see. Let’s move on.”
“I haven’t been in Paris for years. You can check my passport… I left before —”
“Ms Kolikov,” said the officer, staring her down, “your mum’s a citizen. You cleared
the first hurdle. Congratulations. Now trust me when I say this: if you are lucky enough
to continue on this train, you will want to have saved your impassioned speeches for
the Immigration agents at the station. Words don’t change your documents, and from
here on out, all we care about are your docu…”
14
He trailed off, frowned at the screen, and looked back at her sharply. She froze,
unsure what he’d read. He pocketed her ID and his handheld, leaned out the door and
called down the hallway.
“What’s a 17-5?” he said, his voice scratchy when loud.
There was a brief pause, some clattering, then a voice mumbled something back
that Eva couldn’t make out. The officer sighed, leaned further out the door, cupped his
hand to his mask and shouted again: “What’s a 17-5?”
He glanced back at Eva, then walked out of her cabin, sliding the door half-closed,
and disappeared down the hall. She was left there with no papers, painfully alone in a
space meant for four. The wind outside was picking up, and the sky was darker still.
A sudden scream from the hallway broke her stare, and she turned round to see a
woman being shoved down the narrow passage. The officers on either side kept
pushing her forward, their faces cold behind creased masks.
The woman grabbed the bar outside Eva’s door and tried to resist, but the larger of
the two officers planted a hand on her face and pushed so hard it seemed as if her neck
might break.
The woman reached inside her jacket and pulled out a passport, a Euro ID card,
tried to hand them back. One of the officers smacked them out of her hand, onto the
ground, as if they meant nothing to him. They meant everything to her, and she gasped
in horror, lost her grip, and was pushed out of view.
Eva carefully leaned closer to the door, trying to see where they’d gone. She heard
the echo of screaming, frantic banging, and then the sound of the heavy doors to the
train slamming shut.
The woman’s passport lay on rug in the hall, cover bent and tread upon. Bulgarian.
Eva glanced out the window again, felt the cold through her jacket more intensely now.
She touched her empty pocket, bit her lip.
“A long way home,” she said to herself, then risked another peek at the passport.
Her hands clasped together, white fingertips trembling, working up the nerve to snatch
another lifeline. It would only take a second to pull it in. All it would take is a second
and she’d have a back up plan after months of—
15
A knock at the hallway window jolted her back to attention. The officer had
returned, holding her passport and rapping the glass again with scarred knuckles.
“Up!” he called.
Eva quickly obeyed, slipped out of the cabin without a word. The officer watched
her with callous eyes, squinting unhappily. He grabbed her chin and turned her
towards him, making sure he had her attention. He waved her passport, health card,
and ticket like a magician about to perform a trick, then shoved them into her pocket.
Eva flinched at the contact. Her jaw was aching from being clenched so long.
“Back of the train,” he said, shoving her slightly.
She caught her balance just in time, stared at him desperately.
“What’s at the back of the train?”
“Quarantine,” he said coldly, thumbing the safety off his pistol.
16
03
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 26
“Wait!” Eva pleaded as the officer closed in. “I’m Czech!”
He aimed the gun squarely at her head.
“I’ve got forty other so-called Czechs back there who say the same thing.”
Eva’s face lost colour.
“Forty?” she gasped. “But if one of them is sick…”
“Less paperwork for me,” he grunted.
Eva bumped into the wall. The officer half-smirked, like he was begging her to
make a move, so he’d have an excuse to shoot. There was nothing to fight back with,
nowhere to run, and no hope if she tried. She slowly raised her hands above her head.
There was a flash of movement, and suddenly a pair of arms wrapped around his
neck from behind, pulling him back and off-balance. He thrashed to the side, swung a
fierce elbow back into his assailant’s stomach, but still couldn’t get free. He was
slammed into the wall, cracking the window to the compartment, but not giving up his
gun.
He swung his elbow back again, once, twice, and the third blow connected with a
crack. The grip on his neck loosened, and he pulled forward, free, face red with fury
and stress.
Eva’s fist hit him so hard he slammed into the wall. For a moment, he had a look
of confusion, like it didn’t make sense, what had just happened. But only for a moment.
She finished him off with a blow to the face. He collapsed to the ground, glasses broken,
eyes rolling and shut.
17
Eva looked up, saw a lean, scruffy man with ruffled blond hair, wincing at the pain
in his ribs.
“Where’d you learn to do that?” he grunted.
“Here and there,” she smiled. “Thanks, I think.”
“Don’t take it personal,” he grinned, crouching quickly, scooping the gun out of the
guard’s limp hand and giving it a once-over appraisal. “He’d be getting to me next, and
I’m not even Czech. You coming?”
She glanced down at the unconscious guard, then to the back of the train.
“Not much choice anymore, is there?”
“Great! I’m Anton, by the way.”
“Eva,” she said.
Anton smiled back, then took off on a skittish, exploratory journey, down to the
heavy doors at the middle of the train. A bright yellow sign warned them not to leave
until they were sure it was safe outside; a friendly biohazard symbol served as the point
below a question mark.
“I hope you like walking!” Anton beamed, and pulled the door open, just a crack at
first. The cold air beat Eva in the face, making her squint. The rain was coming down
fiercely now, the horizon a blurry mess of heavily slanted sleet pounding into the
farmland.
Anton saw it first. He gripped Eva’s hand tighter.
The Bulgarian woman in the fur coat was backing away from the two guards who
had shoved her outside. They had their pistols aimed, but the way they were closing in
on her said they were doing more than just threatening.
The woman turned to run, covering only a few metres before two shots rang out,
and she dropped to the ground in a heap, her coat spread out in the mud like the wings
of an angel.
“Oh shit,” Eva and Anton said at once.
The guards turned back, holstering their weapons, but paused at the sight of the
open door. The gruff one reacted faster, his eyes open wide as he charged at them,
drawing his gun and taking aim.
18
“Don’t move!” he shouted, and Anton slammed the door, threw down the locking
bolt just as a loud thump hit it. He and Eva dashed back to the unconscious officer,
who was on the verge of waking up when Anton viciously kicked him across the head
and into the wall.
“What are we going to do?” Eva asked.
“I don’t know yet,” Anton said, glancing up and down the corridors. “Let me know
if you think of something. Now come on!”
He took off towards the front of the train, Eva close behind. The other passengers
watched them go, some looking ahead, some looking back, waiting for the guards to
calm the insurrection. None made a move to follow them.
Eva and Anton ducked into a small compartment at the rear of a car, closed the
door and flicked on the lights. He started rifling through cupboards like mad, dropping
food packets, sterile pillows and sealing tape all over the ground as Eva peeked outside,
trying to hear signs of trouble.
“Why are they shooting people?” Anton hissed. “Whatever happened to
deporting?”
“Border’s wide open,” Eva replied. “You get thrown off the train, what’ll you do?
Give up and go home, or finish the trip on foot?”
“I guess,” he conceded.
“The only way for them to be certain is to make sure we don’t make it anywhere on
foot. I should have known this would happen, when they didn’t do the check at the
border. We’re too close to Prague to just boot us out.”
“How far do you think it is?”
Eva shrugged.
“Close enough to try.”
Anton let out a gasp of joy and yanked a pair of heavy brown wool blankets from a
low drawer, folding them over and tucking one under his arm. He shoved the other at
Eva.
“Take this, and move fast!” he said, pushing his way out into the corridor, glancing
back briefly before racing down to the end of the car, to another outside door.
19
“I have them!” came a distant shout, and Anton angrily slammed a fist against the
wall, then turned his attention to a ladder instead.
“Let’s go! Quick!”
They climbed fast, up onto the slick steel roof. It was ridged to make it easier to
scale, but the gentle curve was still steep enough that it was dangerously easy to fall,
especially in this weather. Anton pointed back towards the tail end of the train.
“We’ll double back, get into the fields, muddy up the blankets and stay put till they
give up and leave.”
Gun in hand, he led Eva down the length of the train, rain raising a deafening roar
all around them. It was so noisy she wouldn’t know if someone were calling after them,
not until a gunshot at least… But they were past the point of warning anyway, so she
dashed forward, trying to keep her feet on course while the slick metal threatened
disaster.
She felt a quick tug at her arm, and in an instant, Anton was falling sideways off
the train, smacking his shoulder before disappearing off the edge. Eva dropped to her
knees and leaned over the side, watching him roll to a painful stop in a ditch by the
muddy field. He reached desperately for the gun, which had fallen a short distance
away.
Behind her, guards were starting to get onto the roof, their loud shouts of coordination echoing past. She gripped her blanket tightly, and without pausing, jumped
off the train, landing next to Anton. She flinched at the impact, felt like her legs might
have broken.
“Anton!” she gasped, scuttling over to him. “Anton!”
He got hold of the gun, wiped it across his shirt to clean off the mud, and lurched
to his feet.
“Blankets! Fast!”
She shoved the blankets into the mud, dragging them around. Before she could get
very far, Anton grabbed her by the arm and pulled her further into the field, past a
watery pool. She let the blankets collect all the filth they could along the way.
“We need them now!” Anton called urgently.
20
“Almost there!” she shouted back, but he wasn’t listening anymore. The guards had
caught up with them, were starting to climb down ladders, urgent but confident.
Anton checked the safety.
“Leave my blanket. I’ll catch up.”
“Anton, wait—”
But her voice was drowned out by two sharp shots as Anton clipped the closer
guard in the thigh. He fell, hard, into the tracks, and his comrade quickly slung his gun
out and fired wildly towards the escapees.
Eva had cleared nearly ten metres when she tripped into the mud with a splash.
She checked behind herself to see if anyone had noticed, but all she saw when she
looked was a quick image of Anton, cornered by the enemy, receiving a bullet to the
chest, and toppling backwards.
21
04
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 26
Eva lay still, rain blurring her vision, as the echo of the gunshot disappeared into the
bitter air. She was shivering violently, whether from the cold or from fear, and she
drew slow, ragged breaths to keep from sobbing.
The blanket was beside her, disappearing into mud that was flowing free like a
river, and she knew she, too, was sinking in, out of sight. Just how far, she couldn’t tell.
The guards were yelling back and forth to each other, terse military barks that she
couldn’t make out. Two more skirted the roof of the train, looking out into the fields
with guns drawn, hunting her. It was impossible to tell how much they could see, so
she tried to shove herself further into the muck, to disappear.
“Hey! He’s still breathing!” came a shout from near the train, and Eva dared to look
up that way. A pair of guards were standing over Anton, guns holstered. She couldn’t
see any movement, couldn’t hear any signs of life, but all the same she felt the pit of
her stomach hollow out with terror.
“We’ve gotta move him,” one said to the other.
“I’m not touching that. He’s bleeding all over the place.”
“We’ve got gloves.”
“Then you do it. Better yet, next time shoot ‘em out in the field like you’re supposed
to.”
Eva heard a slosh close by, held her breath. Another slosh, and she could faintly
hear the sound of feet trudging through the mud behind her. Slow, methodical,
searching.
22
She sunk her face lower, closed her eyes, and pushed as far down as she could, until
her nose was half-submerged, pulling in foul-smelling filth every other breath. The
footsteps stopped, but she heard the sound of sleet pounding a guard’s waterproof
jacket.
“Listen,” continued the guard close to the train. “If we leave him here, people are
going see him, and we’ll have a panic on our hands the last half hour of the trip.”
“As if Holik’s leg won’t do that anyway. Or the half-dozen gunshots they’ve all
heard by now.”
The guard behind her was moving again, but she couldn’t tell if he was coming or
going. She became aware of the feeling of rain hitting her left calf directly, and she
realized the mud was flowing off her, that she was slowly becoming uncovered as she
lay there.
She tried to shift her leg until the mud wrapped around her, but then the footsteps
stopped again. They were still close by.
“Fine,” grumbled the first guard. “One way or another, it’s got to be done. Thanks
a lot, though.”
Eva felt pressure on her right foot… The rough tread of a boot on her skin! She bit
her lip to keep from making noise, felt her ankle scream with pain.
Then: crack!
A gunshot echoed out, and everything lost meaning.
“Jesus!” gasped the first guard, and Eva swore she heard mad gurgling. The guard
behind her leapt over her, giving her ankle one last crunch as he did. She whimpered
into the mud, but it was quickly drowned out by the sound of another gunshot, then a
quick series in return.
“Jesus! Oh Christ, I’m hit! I’m hit!” wailed the first guard.
Radios were buzzing all around, footsteps sprinting through water, and Eva heard
the heavy doors to the train crash open. She peeked up, over the mud, blinking back
the rain.
“One, two, three… Up!” called an officer, and the first guard was hauled up on a
stretcher, and carried to the door.
23
She saw the other guard propped up against a comrade, his eyes blank and a
gushing wound in his neck. They closed his eyes and lifted him gently up and away.
One of the younger guards spent a good two minutes sloshing the mud around with
his foot, trying to hide the blood that had pooled there.
Even when she was finally alone, Eva stayed perfectly silent in the rain, for longer
than she could keep track of. The deluge didn’t let up, kept pounding her bare head, so
cold it was like tiny blades smashing into her skull.
She looked ahead, tried to see Anton, see if he was still alive; though that wasn’t
likely anymore. She tried sliding forward on her stomach, crawling flat on the ground,
but she knew it was too risky, and she stopped, rested her head on the side and waited.
Then, after an unbearable wait, an older, senior-looking officer came out the door,
trudged near where Anton had fallen, and lit a cigarette. He looked out into the field,
right towards Eva, blowing smoke against the wind.
A minute later, he was joined by the officer she’d beaten, his glasses gone, bruised
face, an ice pack on the side of his head. He leaned against the train, looking winded.
“All set,” the hurt one said. “The cars are sectioned and we’re ready to move.”
“How’s Karel?”
“As long as he doesn’t pick up anything, he should make it. We’ve got him in
isolation with the doc.”
“Good. We’ll get going once I finish this.”
There was a pause as Eva’s officer looked out over the field too. They stood there
in silence, and Eva shivered at the thought she might be seen.
“How about the girl?” her guard said.
“She’s 17-5, right?”
“Yeah. Hadn’t seen one of those before.”
The smoking officer stared out at the setting sun. His cigarette glowed brightly.
“She’s either dead or going to die. I’m not wasting any more lives on her.”
The other man nodded solemnly, then kept quiet for the time it took his superior
to finish smoking and toss the butt into the mud. They climbed aboard the train,
slammed the door shut, and within a few minutes the train’s engine roared back to life,
and it started to slide down the tracks.
24
Eva waited until it was a faint shimmer on the horizon before crawling to her feet.
Her ankle seared with pain, but she kept walking on it until the sensation disappeared
into her general discomfort. After a few kilometres she was barely limping at all.
* * *
The woman stood behind a fence near the train tracks, her wide hat drooping uselessly
in the rain, a lantern by her side, sending light across the field as far as the weather
allowed. She hadn’t moved the entire time Eva had seen her there, and the only motion
she made up close was to maintain lazy eye contact with the only other living creature
for miles. She was gaunt, like a skeleton with a thin layer of skin holding it together.
“Nice night for a walk,” said the old woman as Eva passed by.
Eva stopped, turned back. It was sometime after midnight, and she was blearyeyed and shivering madly.
“Excuse me?” she trembled.
“No rain lately. This is good for the crops.”
Eva smiled weakly, nodded, started back on her way.
“You’re going to the city?” asked the woman, interrupting again. “I came from the
city. Had a flat there, a nice big television. Watched imported films every Friday night.
You ever seen Midnight Cowboy?”
Eva shook her head.
“Me neither. It was top of the queue when my husband died. Moscow 9.”
Eva just watched. The old woman was talking more to herself now, fiddling her
thumbs, staring at the ground as a waterfall poured off the brim of her hat.
“I couldn’t go back. They sealed my flat, and I had nowhere else to go. My sister
wouldn’t see me, my parents wouldn’t answer the phone. They may have been dead
already. I’m not sure. It’s always hard to tell.”
Another minute passed with just the sound of the rain, and when Eva decided it
was time to move on, the woman looked up at her directly.
“Are you good at farming?”
“Sorry?”
“Do you know anything about growing food? Keeping animals?”
25
“No. No, sorry, I don’t.”
The woman nodded, looked back to the ground.
“I live in the barn, way back there. The farmhouse is sealed. Tape all over. No idea
why. I won’t go in. But the barn is nice. I… I thought it was a waste of land, you know?
All this land, and no one alive to use it? Such a shame. I just… I’m not very good at
growing things. I need some help.”
Eva looked back, saw nothing in the darkness. No farmhouse, no barn, no crops.
“I’m going to stay with my mother. She’s got a place in the city,” Eva said, and the
woman nodded as if she’d expected it.
“That’s good. That’s very good,” she muttered, turning around in a circle, then
settling back where she’d been. “Well then, I won’t keep you. Good luck in there. Good
luck indeed.”
Eva nodded again, then started back towards the city. When the woman’s lamp was
no longer helping light her way, she heard a coarse cry:
“Oh! And if you find any books on farming, bring them out for me! I’ll make us
tea!”
Eva didn’t turn to reply. She just kept walking into the cold.
26
05
SKIPTON HOUSE, LONDON, ENGLAND
NOVEMBER 27
William Carey stubbed his toe on a concrete barrier, and his coffee promptly dumped
itself all over the sidewalk. It took him a moment or two to fully process what he’d
done, by which point the hot liquid was well on its way to searing his hand, which made
him throw it away in a hurry, cursing quietly under his breath.
“’Morning, Mr Carey,” said a patrolman, tight rubber mask hiding a warm smile.
“Trouble with your beverage, sir?”
Carey smiled pathetically, shrugged.
“I seem to lose them daily, don’t I, Claude?”
“That you do, sir.”
Carey wiped his trousers off with his free hand, his leather briefcase barely
counterbalancing the effort. He stood up, sighed loudly, and pushed his wire-rimmed
glasses up his nose. Luckily, there was no one else in the area to see his disaster.
Somewhere off in the distance, a lone motorbike zipped down another empty
street, piercing the morning quiet and sending a storm of pigeons off the rooftops all
around Skipton House.
“One day I’ll make it to my desk without tripping over things.”
Claude shrugged, then caught sight of a young woman in a grey skirt and a yellow
wrap-around mask on her way to work. She ably flashed him an ID badge as she
passed, and took no notice of Carey at all. The two men watched her card-swipe her
way through the front doors and disappear inside.
Carey’s coffee-soaked clothes were starting to give him a chill. He wiped at them
some more.
27
“It’s a waste of a good drink, is what it is,” he grumbled.
“You’d have to dump it out at the first checkpoint anyway, sir,” Claude said,
checking down the street this way and that, like he was waiting to get on with more
important business.
“No. Really?”
“Yes sir. No outside substances past checkpoint A.”
“Oh dear. I… I guess I never got far enough to find out about that rule.”
“Yes sir.”
Carey began staring at the ground, embarrassed, started shifting the briefcase to
his other hand and back. He refused to meet Claude’s eyes, though Claude wasn’t
paying attention anyway.
“Well, have a good day, then!” Carey said with a deflated kind of cheer.
“And you, sir.”
Carey hopped onto the street, crossed over to the other side, and caught sight of
himself in the polished brass of the ‘Containment Office’ sign: he looked like a fool,
and he wanted desperately to go home.
* * *
The coffee machine at Skipton House was deep inside the building, in a hallway where
the lights barely functioned and stacks of boxes overflowed dot-matrix pages all over
the floor. A patchwork system of notices on the wall instructed employees how not to
brew coffee, complete with a warning that two scoops of the Colombian Dark from the
mini-fridge on the left might very well constitute a biohazard.
Carey kept his briefcase perched between two fingers on each hand, waiting
patiently while the ‘quick brew’ light died a meandering death.
The fluorescent bars above him, which had been no brighter than a candle to start,
gave out midway through the process, leaving Carey in utter darkness for a few minutes
while he tried to tap it back to life with the heel of his shoe. A woman with a black skirt
and a white cotton mask stared uncertainly as the light came back on, him standing
there on his toes, his worn leather loafer in his fingertips, madly swatting at the ceiling.
After a moment of awkward silence, he stepped aside so she could pass.
28
His coffee still wasn’t done.
Down the hall, in the great sea of cubicles that made up the first floor of the Client
Service Department, he heard the chatter of a few dozen workers speaking in calm,
soothing tones to the panicked masses.
“No sir,” said one woman, her northern accent cutting through the rest. “we have
not absorbed the Immigration Office. You still need to clear things with them before
filing papers with us. No, no sir, I won’t be able to transfer your file. They gather rather
different information there. Did you… oh you have? And they still told you to… Right,
let me save you some time, then. You’re going to have to fill out a BCO-193 form and
mail it in to our Liverpool branch, and they’ll… yes, that’s right, four months. I wish I
could, sir, but as you can imagine, there’s a substantial backlog of late…”
The coffee machine beeped gently, bringing Carey back to the task at hand. He
picked up his cup and turned round, carefully navigating the crowded hallways to his
office in the Corporate Accountability (Foreign Affairs) section. Off to his left spread a
large room filled haphazardly with desks, stacked thick with wires, papers and
dossiers.
Each of the thirty-odd employees there looked up to him as he came through,
nodding respectfully and muttering their ‘Good morning, Inspector’s in a way that was
not entirely convincing.
Carey tried waving to them, but the motion spilt coffee on his hand. His eyes
twitched at the heat, and he smiled weakly and darted into his office.
He set the cup down on his desk, sloshing even more around, sucking the drops of
coffee off his hand, then clasped it tightly and tried to contain himself.
His flailing was interrupted by a sharp knock at the door that sent him scrambling
for tissues, scrap paper, anything to soak up the mess. He got things reasonably tidy,
leaned back in his chair, faking an expression that only half-resembled authority.
“Come in,” he called, picking up a pen and searching his desk for a paper to be
writing on, though all such papers were now in the trash.
“Excuse me, sir,” said a woman, leaning in the cracked-open door. “I wish this
could wait. We seem to have a very serious problem on our hands, and we need your
help.”
29
“What kind of problem?” Carey squeaked, motioning her to come in.
She slipped into the room, and Carey immediately remembered her name: Janice.
She was possibly the most gorgeous subordinate in the entire government. Carey knew
her name thanks to the ID tag she wore on her too-tight sweaters, which oddly
reminded him of the actress in the sexual harassment video he’d been shown as part
of orientation.
“It’s something we caught last night,” she said, sitting cautiously across from him.
“It might be nothing, but—”
“But then you wouldn’t be in here with that look on your face,” Carey interrupted,
and Janice’s expression went as blank as she could manage.
“Quite right,” she conceded. “It’s urgent.”
“Where’s that David fellow? He’s your manager, isn’t he? Shouldn’t he be here too?
I mean, not that I mind. I’m sure you’re capable.”
Janice’s eyebrow twitched.
“I’m sorry, sir, didn’t you hear? David had a cough last night. He’s under house
arrest till spring.”
“Spring?” Carey gasped. “For a cough? What do we do here in flu season?”
“Honestly, sir, we lose half the workforce through the winter. I only clocked six
months of time last year. The Department takes it very seriously.”
Carey nodded uncertainly.
“Well then,” he said. “Lacking David, I guess you’ll have to walk me through this.”
“My pleasure, sir,” she said, handing him a block of pages from deep inside the
stack of folders. He scanned it quickly to try and gather context, but got nowhere. It
was filled with columns of numbers and codes, none of which made sense to him. All
he recognized was the subject line at the top.
“Zemus Pharmaceuticals,” he said. “Are we… I wasn’t aware Zemus used foreign
workers.”
“Oh, they don’t, sir,” Janice said. “This was sent to us by Revenue, actually. A bit
outside our usual scope. They had some questions and thought we should take a look.”
30
“Oh, I see,” Carey said, nodding broadly. “Co-operation among the branches of
government. Good to see.” He flipped to the second page, then the third, frowned. “I’m
still not following, I think,” he said.
Janice’s face lit up, and she quickly dashed round the desk, her perfume strong.
She pointed to the first of the highlighted entries on the second page, following the line
across with her pen, resting on the code ‘EAB’, in the ‘Testing/Approval’ column.
“These are the additions to the next Zemus booster shot, due for manufacture in
December,” she said. “You see there are nearly twenty cases of Executive Approval
Bypass already. Revenue was wondering if that’s normal.”
“And… um… is it?” Carey smiled nervously.
Janice pointed to one of the other entries, its ‘Testing/Approval’ column full of
letter codes.
“The average patch in a booster release is based on a live virus,” she said. “Zemus
researchers crack a strain and put it into the testing process, working their way along
until the vaccine is proven to be safe for general consumption.”
“Ah,” sighed Carey. “so they’re bypassing all the testing. Um. Executively.”
“They have a process built specifically to let them bypass testing,” Janice said, her
eyes twinkling as she avoided looking at him. “It’s supposed to be used when they make
a deal with another certified British company, so they can pass their treatments back
and forth without reinvesting in the testing that’s supposedly taken place. It saves time
and money, and keeps all boosters as up-to-date as possible.”
Carey nodded.
“I’m following,” he said. “But… er… why is this a problem, exactly?”
Janice pointed to one of the highlighted entries, tapped it gravely.
“None of these strains have been identified within Britain,” she said. “They’re all
continental.”
“Right!” he said. “Continental is certainly no good. So should we… should I assign
someone to start the paperwork on… I mean… discipline or somesuch? Is that what
we’d do here?”
31
Janice shook her head, and it was increasingly obvious to both who was better
suited for the chair Carey now occupied. She closed the folder, crouched next to his
chair, spoke in a near-whisper.
“This needs careful handling, sir,” she said. “I’d like permission to bring it to the
Director, if you don’t mind.”
“The Director?” Carey gasped. “Janice, listen, I’ve been here almost a month and
I’ve only met the man once. I don’t think we should be… you know… bothering him
about some import violations.”
“Sir, Zemus hasn’t been importing anything,” she whispered urgently. “There
would be stacks of paperwork as tall as this room for each one of these entries. There
would be hundreds of man hours dedicated to confirming them. And more
importantly, there would be some evidence that there are actually Continental
companies behind each of these cures in the first place. We’ve looked, and there aren’t
any. Half of the strains here aren’t even registered with EU Health.”
“Maybe they’re from the Chinese…?” Carey offered meekly.
“The Chinese use a whole other system. They go through the government first,
trickle down to the corporations at the end of testing. And anyway, Zemus puts so
much effort into dodging Chinese vaccines, it’s highly unlikely they’d suddenly start
adopting them under the table like this.
“No sir, these bypasses are being implemented blindly. There’s a concerted effort
here to add new elements to the Zemus boosters in such a way as to dodge the usual
inspections… and we have no idea what’s actually in them. It’s not a matter of
regulations. This is true public safety on the line.”
“Oh,” said Carey meekly. “All right then, we’ll go see the Director straight away.
And you’ll do the talking.”
Janice smiled, stood up and almost immediately changed her composure: she
stood taller, held her face more sharply, reeked of middle management.
“Just… what are you planning to say?” Carey asked, and she stared down at him
with intense focus, her jaw set.
“I’m going to explain that someone could very well be using Zemus’ booster shot
project to distribute viruses globally. And unchecked.”
32
06
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 27
It was midday before Eva saw the peak of the church on Nepomucká, and it took
another hour before it looked anything like the photo she’d carried in her wallet all
these years.
Even when she got the angle right, the differences were striking. The sky today was
a light grey rather than bright and blue, and Eva looked nothing like her younger self,
wearing a University of Paris t-shirt, plump, with a hearty smile. The photo was
creased and faded, looked worse for wear; but not as bad as Eva.
She rounded the corner to Píseckého, past a row of houses she only halfremembered, and paced quickly down to #1 with the kind of stiff-moving
determination that only comes from a fear of the elements.
Sometime around dawn the weather had changed from a kind of rainy-cold to a
winter-cold, giving Eva’s exposed skin a sharp, prickling sensation that she knew
would feel like a blazing fire the second she got warm. If she got warm. The last of the
mud had washed off her some time ago, but it took with it whatever insulation she
might have had.
She leapt up the building stairs and pushed on the front door. It swung open
eagerly, and Eva felt a tiny pocket of warm air blow past her, out into the rain. Beyond
the threshold, she found it was colder inside than outside, so she dashed up the stairs
to the third floor, down the hall to #303, and knocked with a reddened hand.
No answer. She tried again, as a shiver shot up her spine, eating away any lingering
patience. She made a fist and pounded on the door, her teeth rattling audibly.
33
“She isn’t home, dear,” said an old woman from next door. She was peeking out of
her apartment, shawl pulled around her short, thick frame. She wore glasses nearly a
third the size of her face, yet her eyes were squinted like she couldn’t see.
Eva tried to control her breathing so she could speak clearly, but had little luck.
“How long has she been gone?” she called out feebly.
The woman cocked her head a bit, came out into the hall with a cracked fibreglass
cane and wobbled towards Eva.
“I wouldn’t know, dear. I don’t like to snoop. But I remember that young fellow
from this morning was knocking at the door like such a madman, I nearly called the
police!” The woman paused a short distance away, inspecting Eva carefully. “You look
cold.”
Eva closed her eyes, thought of warm places.
“I… I had to walk from… from the train station,” she said. “it’s raining.”
“Poor thing,” said the woman. “Here… take my shawl. You don’t want to catch a
cold in a place like this.”
Eva put out a hand, smiled weakly.
“No… no thank you,” she said. “Too wet right now. I… I just have to get inside and
warm up.”
“Inside? Do you know Mrs Kolikov? I didn’t know she…” The woman gasped. “Oh
my… you’re not Eva, are you?”
Eva winced at the woman, nodded.
“Oh my dear… I had no idea… in the photos you always look so radiant and…” she
trailed off, realizing what she was saying. Eva laughed.
“Been a hard few years,” she said.
“For us all,” the woman sighed. She reached out her hand, as if waking back into
polite society. “I’m Bachida Novacek. I live next door. It’s so wonderful to finally meet
you.”
Eva took the woman’s hand with icy fingers, shook gently.
“Hi,” she said, then pulled her arm back in a vain attempt to stay warm. Mrs
Novacek rubbed Eva’s shoulder, the air of a kind grandmother about her.
34
“You must have been out there a long time to be this wet. Why don’t you come to
my place and warm up?”
Eva shook her head. “No, really, it’s okay. I just really want to get inside. Did my
mother leave a key around here, under the mat or s-s-s-something…?”
Eva collapsed against the door as a shiver swarmed over her, and she pressed her
head down and shut her eyes tight, trying to ride it out. But before long the weight of
the past few days slammed into her, and she started sobbing uncontrollably, one hand
covering her eyes, the other desperately trying to twist the doorknob.
A warm hand rubbed her back, up and down, and she felt a comforting nudge
under her arm.
“Come along, dear,” the old woman said. “let’s get you fixed up.”
Eva stumbled, head sunk low, into the humid, homey embrace of Mrs Novacek’s
living room. She was guided down onto a too-soft sofa, between a pair of ochre-andmustard knitted pillows, a warm blanket wrapped over her shoulders. It took her a full
minute to control her crying.
“I’m all wet,” she said, keeping her eyes to the ground.
“Things dry,” Mrs Novacek said, digging under a pile of blankets, hunting for the
second of a pair of thick furry slippers. “When did you eat last?”
“I can’t eat now. Too cold.”
“Tea, then,” and she shuffled off into the kitchen, cane creaking with each step.
The living room was packed, but tidy. There were countless photo frames lining
every available surface, showing a full range from glossy colour to dusty black-andwhite. There were a handful of frames lined with wilted flowers, set aside from the rest,
a single scented candle burning before them.
Above the fireplace was a large painting, done in oils, from Place de l’Alma in Paris,
looking over the Seine. The sky was a rusty colour, not the merciless, bright orange
that came in more recent days. Eva knew the image intimately.
“You have one of my paintings?” she called out.
“Your mother gave it to me. She’s very proud of you, dear. It’s not every child who’s
so gifted in the arts! My late sister had two of your paintings in her dining room, she
loved them so much. When they unseal the house, I’ll see if I can’t spirit them away.”
35
“How bad is it here?” Eva asked. “News is hard to come by on the outside.”
“The Old Town Square closed last month. The vandals had run wild for too long. It
was necessary, but it… it took the spark out of us. The radio said the old clock’s keeper
has fallen ill. His son, too. Only the daughter seems safe, and who knows for how long?
Sometimes you wonder… when is it too much? When do we stop being who we are?”
“I hope it takes more than that,” Eva said.
“But it can’t be as bad as where you’ve been,” the old woman replied. “Paris must
have been terrible. I know your mother has been worried sick about you.”
“I know,” Eva said, lowering her head, “I know. I made a mess of things.”
“Why did you stay out for so long, dear? Excuse me for saying, but why didn’t you
come back home, come back and take care of your mama?”
Eva shook her head, bottom lip trembling.
“You know that feeling you get, riding a bike down a steep hill? You know it could
go so wrong for you… it should go wrong… but you still hope you’ll be okay? You’ll
survive unscathed?”
Eva ran her fingers through her hair, gripped her head, tried to control the
shivering. All the shivering.
“I guess I thought I could survive the trip,” she said.
“You did survive, dear,” said Mrs Novacek as she paced back into the room, a pair
of tea cups rattling on their saucers. She handed one to Eva, who took it with trembling
hands. The warmth made her fingers prickle, but it was a good pain to be feeling, after
all that cold.
“Drink slowly,” Mrs Novacek said, lowering herself into a chair across from Eva.
“You’ve got a lot of cold to undo, and it will take a while.”
“Thanks,” Eva said, sipping the camomile quietly. Her host blew into her own cup
and looked out the window.
“It’s colder this year than it has been since I was a girl,” she said, grim. “They say
it never snows in Prague until February, but I think this year is different. There was no
autumn at all. A parched summer to a bitter winter.”
“It’s like that everywhere,” said Eva. “They say it’s the lack of cars on the roads,
messing up the ozone layer. Or… or the other way around, maybe.”
36
“They say a lot of things,” harumphed the woman.
Eva looked out the sliding glass door, into the pale water-colour sky over the city.
A few browned leaves, untouched by the rain, blew across the balcony to the left, and
under the divider to—
“That’s it!” she gasped, and quickly put her tea down on the coffee table. Keeping
the blankets wrapped tight around her, she scurried to the balcony, and leaned over
the edge, peering down the row. A smile grew on her face, and she looked back at the
confused Mrs Novacek.
“My mother never locks the balcony door!” she exclaimed, just before the cold air
brought her shiver back full-force. “If I can swing around this partition, I can get in
through the back!”
Mrs Novacek observed the situation through her thick glasses.
“I think you ought to wait for her to get home,” she said, but Eva had already
handed her back her blanket, and was climbing up on the balcony ledge, holding the
partition tightly with reddened fingers.
She glanced down below herself as she straddled the two sides, as the wind bit her
re-exposed skin. There were gardening tools down there: a rake, push lawn mower and
an assortment of pruning shears, half-buried by a scattershot pile of leaves. Three
storeys down. Eva’s sneakers slid slightly on the ledge.
She moved herself enough to be able to swing around the rest of the way in a quick
motion, and she landed on her mother’s balcony and toppled to the ground.
“Eva! Eva, dear, are you all right?” cried Mrs Novacek from the other side.
Eva got up awkwardly, brushed the grime and dirt off her knees, and gave the
sliding glass door a little nudge. It slid open easily.
“I’m great, Mrs Novacek. No trouble at all. I just…”
Her voice trailed off into nothing as she looked into the apartment, and saw the
blood splatter on the kitchen wall.
37
07
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 27
“Hold on a second,” Eva called to Mrs Novacek, and walked into the apartment with
careful, silent feet.
It was cold inside, and dry, like the inverse of Mrs Novacek’s place. The walls were
stark and bare; the glass-topped coffee table had a solid layer of dust to it. At the
division between the living room and the kitchen, Eva noticed the glistening remnants
of a pair of wine glasses, the white carpet stained burgundy, next to a dried pool on the
tile floor.
A knife lay on its side on a cutting board, a rotting carrot half-chopped, alone on
the counter. Eva rounded it without breathing, her eyes locked on the blood sprayed
on the far wall, dripping down along the baseboards into an area she couldn’t — and
didn’t want to — see.
After a last, hesitant step, she saw a thick pool of blood, glassy almost, rubbed
about on the clean tile floor. But no body. Nothing at all, as if someone had bled all
that, standing up, and left only a fading set of footprints to the front door and beyond.
Eva touched the toe of her shoe to the pool of blood. It stuck slightly, but not much.
She rubbed it off on the ground next to her, looked around anxiously.
“Mama?” she called out into the flat. A sharp echo repeated it.
She carefully padded down the hallway to her mother’s bedroom on the right,
peered in cautiously. She held her breath and listened for a sound for any sign of life.
She reached in, flipped on the lights, and saw nothing but more of the same sterile
blankness as the rest of the place. The bed was made up the way it always was.
38
Further down in the bathroom, Eva instinctively switched on the heat as she
entered the room. The thermostat clicked quietly as the baseboard heaters woke from
a yearlong slumber, sending the smell of hot metal into the air.
Aside from the medicine cabinet being half-open, there was nothing of note. The
expired prescription bottles were still neatly arranged, labels out. The shower mat
drooped neatly from the edge of the bathtub.
The last room at the end of the hall had been Eva’s, briefly. But when she opened
it, she found none of her old things. Instead, there was a heavy oak desk, covered with
piles upon piles of papers, folders and random stationery. A laptop screen peered
through the mess, its base buried beneath a sea of physical things. A pair of hulking
bookshelves overflowed with medical journals, binders of reports and university
textbooks Eva had never seen.
The floor, too, was littered with crumpled papers, notes and sketches. Molecules,
DNA strands without notation, coded scribblings in her mother’s handwriting. A red
pen cracked under her foot as she made her way across the room, to the small endtable that held a thick cardboard box. There was a smear of blood on the side, the
bottom corner badly bashed in, crumpled.
Inside, she found a dozen smaller boxes, about the size of a can of soda, with blueand-white labels in Finnish, French and Russian. Eva turned one and read the
Russian:
GENESIS INCUBATOR
REFILL CAPSULE
220MG (55MG X 4)
She put the package down and stepped back, looking around. She dashed back to
the kitchen, grabbed the phone off the wall, and turned it on.
Her finger hovering over the keypad, Eva listened to the dial tone. She looked at
the drying blood on the ground, saw her passport peeking out of her jacket pocket,
stained with mud. The empty room sucked the warmth out of her.
39
She turned off the phone and left it on the counter.
Just then, a knock at the door sent Eva back into the wall. She stayed there, quiet,
listening. After a short pause, there was another knock, quick and agitated, and Eva
carefully slid towards the door, her thumping heart making it hard to concentrate on
whatever sounds she could discern from out in the hall.
She found her voice, squeaky with fear.
“Hello?” she called to the locked-and-chained door.
“Eva?” asked Mrs Novacek anxiously, and Eva exhaled so deeply she nearly fainted.
She undid the chain, threw the lock and opened the door enough to peek out.
“Hi, Mrs Novacek,” she said, trying to sound as calm and nonchalant as she could.
“Oh, you made it! I was worried! You sounded as if something was wrong!”
Eva bit her lip.
“Oh, I… I just thought the oven was left on. Optical illusion. My eyeballs are
probably frozen.”
She faked a smile, but the half-blind old woman didn’t notice. She just rubbed Eva’s
arm kindly, patted her gently.
“You look frozen, too. Go take a warm bath, dear, and stay here until your mama
gets home. She’ll be so happy to see you.”
As Eva shut the door, she looked around the desolate room, cold and empty and
alien, and shivered again.
“Until she gets home,” she repeated.
* * *
Lean arms wrapped round Eva, warmer than the bath water, and she turned her head
back and kissed a rough, unshaven chin, eyes closed. Past the scented oils, she smelled
him. Familiar. She felt breath on her neck, so at peace, and slowly drifted lower in the
water, but he held her tight, and she smiled.
“Rhodri,” she moaned.
Then she choked on cold water.
40
She sat up suddenly, her arms locking tightly on the edges for support. She was
alone in the room, in the bath especially. The water was frigid. She sat there a moment,
not moving, till things stopped rippling around her.
She glanced to the side, out into the empty hallway.
“Stay out of my head,” she said to no one present.
* * *
She awoke some time in the night feeling winded, like she’d been running for hours,
but unable to sleep any more. It took all her willpower to down a foil-wrapped package
of ‘Safe Food’ she’d found stashed in the closet. The wrapper boasted ‘Czech
Government Certified’, which made Eva smile.
She spent half an hour on her mother’s sofa, wrapped in two fleece blankets,
staring away from the TV at the empty fireplace. There was wood to the side, a lighter
too, but she just watched the dark hole instead. The baseboard heaters went click click
click click as they came back to life, trying to keep the November air at bay.
She was peripherally aware of the programme guide appearing on the screen,
informing her of all the great classics that would be coming up on Prague’s #1 station.
The easy-listening music made her eyelids heavy, and she swayed a bit, but stayed
awake.
The news came on, and she found herself watching, though her head didn’t turn.
“We are following a developing story at this hour,” said the newscaster, a pristine
blonde whose cheeks still had the marks from the edge of a filter mask. “A six-year-old
boy thought to be lost in the east-end housing projects last week has been found, and
re-united with his grandparents following an exhaustive search by local police. The
boy, who cannot be named due to patient confidentiality laws, was last seen by
neighbours nearly eight days ago. According to sources, he has survived on breakfast
cereal in the attic of a neighbouring building since disappearing.”
Eva reluctantly turned her head to the screen as the boy’s grandfather carried a
blanket-wrapped child past the news camera.
“It’s a miracle we have him back,” said the old man, tears in his eyes. “It must have
been so hard for him, alone, out in this weather, especially after his mother—”
41
“That’s all for questions,” interrupted a police spokesman, hand across the lens,
pushing the cameraman away. “Give them some privacy. Go on.”
Eva turned off the TV, threw the remote across the room. She took a long, slow
breath. The air was still cold.
She rummaged through her mother’s drawers until she came out with another
layer of sweaters, long underwear and socks, and found the biggest, heaviest boots she
could to throw on her icy feet. She stomped around the living room a bit to get her
blood flowing again, and turned all the thermostats up as high as they’d go.
A knock at the door gave her a start, but also something to do. She sprinted over,
undid the chain and the lock.
“Thank god you’re here, Mrs Novacek, I was…”
But it wasn’t Mrs Novacek at the door. A heavy gloved hand grabbed the front of
her shirt and yanked her off balance.
“There you are, Ms Kolikov,” said a woman in a heavy winter coat, holding a police
badge over her thickset partner’s shoulder. “We were wondering when you’d show up.”
42
NOVEMBER 28
08
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Dr Fanta Anouma adjusted the stethoscope on a frail, pocked arm, and checked
her watch with a frown. A drip of sweat trickled down her ebony skin, and she brushed
it with her free arm, careful not to touch her sterile gloves. The sound of the heaters all
around the room was hard to overcome; she strained to hear, wrinkling her brow with
concentration.
“Know what you’re doing?” asked Mr Vecera, his voice raspy and coarse.
“Shh,” Anouma scolded. “or I’ll have to start over.”
Mr Vecera smiled at her, his patchy white beard a sharp accent to the gaps in his
teeth, brown and black. His hospital gown hung on him loosely, dried blood down the
front. An IV hung behind him, dripping saline slowly.
Anouma flung the stethoscope round her neck, jotted on his chart with a too-short
pencil. She scratched underneath her surgeon’s mask with the bunched-up wrist of her
glove, sighing.
“Bad news?” Mr Vecera asked, half-serious.
“No worse than before,” Anouma replied. “continuing this way, you will live
forever.”
Mr Vecera laughed loudly, and two of the patients nearest him grunted and tried
to roll themselves so they’d be facing away from him. He patted Anouma’s hand kindly.
“You lie badly,” he said. “but thank you.”
Anouma didn’t answer, kept her expression the same. She looked down at his
chart, and he squeezed her hand to get her attention back.
43
“Miss home?” he asked sincerely.
Anouma shrugged.
“I am liking it here,” she said.
“Your language is better. Give it another month and we won’t even know you’re not
Czech.”
Anouma laughed this time, patted his arm and put his chart back at the end of his
bed.
“What’s it like where you come from?” he asked her.
“The place I lived in Côte d'Ivoire, they call it the hot country,” she said, her eyes
alive, remembering. “We in the north are teased for poor constitution, how we cannot
survive in but a peaceful, sunny clime. But you know, after all these years up here, in
your city, Mr Vecera… well, my friends in the south, near the ocean, they have no idea
what cold really is. Having a nice breeze off the water is nothing like a day such as
today.”
“Ah! So you like it here, then?”
She smiled, her mask tipping to the side.
“How could I not like a place that gives me patients like you.”
He beamed happily, waved her off with a shaky hand.
“I’m glad you’ve stayed with us, doctor,” he said. “You’re tougher than those
southerners could ever hope to be.”
“Thank you,” she said with a nod. “I will be back to check you again. Soon.” She
pulled the curtain round his bed back, letting in the full sound and sight of four
hundred sick and dying patients.
They were grouped and partitioned by type and severity of disease, and though
there were signs up to help pinpoint whichever strain you were after, anyone with a
passing familiarity of modern plagues could get their bearings at a glance by the
particular skin tones or the stains on the bed sheets. From the middle of the floor, the
sounds of different species of moans swept past Anouma as she stood alone, the tallest
thing in the rows of beds.
She felt a calm breeze blow her hair across her forehead, and for a moment she
swayed, smiling at the sensation, calming, quiet. But then her eyes opened and she
44
stared up at the ceiling, at the large fans up there, swirling slowly, picking up speed,
and her breath left her.
She turned quickly to the far end of the room, down by the generators, and saw a
nurse playing with a long row of switches, trying to see which one powered the old Xray machine. Anouma started to call out, but clipped herself off, clenched her fists and
made a quickly dash to the nurse.
She slammed all the switches down, with a furious hand, grabbed the nurse by the
collar.
“What do you think you are doing?” she hissed.
“I can’t figure which one turns on the—”
“Take a look at the ceilings!” Anouma whispered. “You’ve been running the fans!
How long have you been at the switches?”
“I… I don’t know,” fumbled the nurse. “A minute? Maybe more?”
Anouma shook her head, squeezed back a head ache.
“Air flow must be restricted in this room,” she said. “Our partitioning is not good
enough to stop cross-contamination.”
“I know, I—”
“You must be more careful,” Anouma said, her tone softening. “If Dr Bastien
noticed this, you would be—”
“Help!” came the call from the old foyer, across the sea of white linen. Anouma
glanced back, then abandoned her warning and started running, stethoscope slung
into her ears in mid-stride. Across the hall, Dr Bastien was running too, tearing his
gloves off urgently.
A man in a work suit was leaning against the wall, a small child in his arms,
wrapped in a blanket and drenched with rain. The man was panting, wheezy breaths,
and looked like he’d been crying. The girl coughed loudly, and he nearly dropped her
onto the ground.
“Help her… I don’t know what’s wrong…” he gasped, then collapsed down in a
heap, barely keeping her frail body from slamming into the floor. Anouma slipped on
a new pair of gloves, crouched down and pulled the blanket away from the girl’s face.
45
It stuck, glued with dried pus to the face, and the girl cried out, then coughed again…
a terrible, hacking cough.
“Kiev-5,” Bastien muttered grimly from behind, blasting his stethoscope with
disinfectant and pushing it against the girl’s pocked chest. “How long has she been
sick?” he asked the man.
“I… I think three days,” he muttered, his eyes rolling back in his head.
“Catch him,” Bastien said, snatching the girl as Anouma gently lowered the father’s
head to the ground. She pried open his jacket and shirt, saw the smallest of blisters on
his chest.
“Cover his face with a mask and help me get the girl outside,” Bastien said, pushing
his white hair from his eyes.
“Outside?”
“We need open air,” he said sternly.
“She needs a bed!” Anouma whispered urgently. Bastien stared at her seriously,
spoke in hushed French, darting quick glances back to the sick room.
“Kiev-5 is airborne at this stage. Half the people in this room would die tonight if
they caught it. Even with the fans off, we cannot take that chance.”
“She will die out there,” Anouma replied, unfazed.
“She’ll die in here too. Don’t let her take the rest with her.”
A loud cry came from inside the room, weak but hysterical.
“I can’t die!” a woman cried in French. “I can’t die here!”
“Shit,” Bastien muttered, then called out to her: “If you say one word of Czech
about this to anyone, I’ll make this girl your bed mate, do you understand me?”
There was a long silence.
“Y-y-yes,” came the reply.
Bastien nodded to Anouma.
“Grab the ultrasound and meet me on the steps.”
Anouma quickly draped a blanket over the girl’s father, a mask securely over his
face, and ran back into the treatment room, to the cupboards near the crash station,
and pulled a small, stained ultrasound out. She pushed the battery check as she ran,
slowed when she saw it had half power. She stopped by the drawers at the door,
46
rummaged around for some gel and a spare battery. All she found was a half-used
bottle and an empty battery package.
Bastien had the girl on her back on the steps to the hospital, checking her airway.
He motioned for the ultrasound, and Anouma handed it over, squirted gel on the girl’s
stomach, the greenish colour mixing with thick yellow. Bastien pushed the sensor
down, and she lurched up, gasping.
“Hold her,” he commanded, squinting at the screen.
Anouma angled down on the girl’s shoulders, watching the poor swollen eyes
twitching in a pained sleep. She looked away, to the monitor, squinted at it, then
glanced at where Bastien was pointing.
“Her liver…” she said tentatively.
“Kidneys too,” he muttered. “Her lungs are going now.”
“Should we…?”
“No,” he said, snapping the machine off, wiping it clean. “once the liver’s gone, so
is the patient. Her father got her here too late.”
Anouma blinked, looked down at the beautiful blonde hair round the distorted
face, brushed it with a gloved hand. When she looked back up, Bastien was preparing
a shot.
“What is…”
“For the pain,” he said, pushing it through her veins. “whatever good it might do
her.”
Anouma nodded, watched the girl calm suddenly, her breathing watery and slow.
Bastien handed the ultrasound over, checking the rain that was blowing onto their
temporary operating room.
“Get that inside,” he said. “we’ll have to move her to the back until it’s over.”
Anouma nodded, pushed the heavy wooden doors in and paced back to the crash
station, setting the machine atop the counter absent-mindedly.
“Are we dying?” asked the lone voice, in French, nervously.
Anouma turned back to the room, curtains and beds and drip bags everywhere,
and had no idea whose voice it was.
“You are fine,” she lied. “The girl was fine. It was just a cold, nothing more.”
47
No one answered.
As she made her way to the front, she heard the sound of Dr Bastien shouting. She
ran to the door, pushed into the cold, wet air, and saw the old man yelling into the rain.
There, in the middle of the ambulance bay, was a dark figure wrapped tight in leather
and metal, and Anouma gasped.
A Healer.
48
09
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
“You will not pass this door!” Bastien growled. “Go back east, you monster!”
The Healer carefully raised a hand and tapped his right temple with a finger.
Anouma glanced over as Bastien mirrored the action, a faded tattoo etched on his face,
four short bars. He touched them gingerly, as if they stung.
“Yes, I remember,” Bastien spat. “And it won’t be repeated! This is my redemption!
Go kill somewhere else!”
Bastien picked up the girl with some effort, glanced over at Anouma.
“I’ll be in the back. Lock the doors behind us.”
“But—” she started.
“Do it, Fanta,” he grunted. “He cannot be allowed inside.”
She nodded solemnly, opened the door for the old man, then crept in herself,
locking the dead bolt in the middle of the panelling. The doors were thick and old, but
something about the seal said they couldn’t really be closed against someone who
wanted in badly enough. She nervously glanced outside, through the tall window in the
door.
The bay was empty. Rain poured freely down, rushing off the faded ‘Ambulance’
sign like a waterfall, the backed-up drain in the centre of the pavement unable to keep
up with demand. The thing had gone. She leaned closer, trying to see around the
corner—
A mask shot into view, right against the window, meeting her gaze, and she yelped.
Warm, processed breath hissed out of the ventilation ducts by his neck, fogging the
glass in irregular bursts. Anouma recoiled, but was too scared to run.
49
The Healer stared at her dispassionately, then looked over, carefully and
deliberately, to the dead bolt. Then he looked at her again. She shivered, shook her
head ‘no’. She darted her eyes over, checked that she had really locked it.
There was no movement for some time.
He stepped back one pace, not breaking eye contact, and without warning,
slammed his hand against the glass. She jumped back in shock, pushed a fist against
the lock, held her breath.
He was taping a paper to the window, in short, almost mechanical motions. She
backed up further from the door, bumping into a gurney left on the far wall, draped
with sheets to cover the bloodstains the doctors had been unable to clean off. She
gripped the cold metal bars for support.
Once the paper was fully fastened, the Healer turned and began walking away
without a pause; down the steps, through the growing puddle, past the waterfall sign,
and around the corner. Anouma waited another minute or two before moving forward,
checking more closely.
She exhaled for the first time in what seemed like hours, and pressed her forehead
against the door, trying to get back her nerves.
“He is gone,” she said to herself. “You did fine. You did fine.”
She looked up, saw the poster he’d left. An information sheet in French, in clear
and clinical grammar: symptoms of a strain called ‘LS-411’. How to diagnose it. How
not to treat it. It was always fatal. She lightly touched her fingers against the window,
her mouth falling open, and gasped at the photo of the lesions to take care for.
She ran to the stairwell without a word.
* * *
Franz stripped the plastic wrap from a stale hospital sandwich at the bottom of a
dark green dumpster, trembling hands nearly losing the cheese and ham. He shoved it
into his mouth, chewing furiously, and licked off his grimy fingers, darting nervous
glances out past the bags above him.
“Franz!” hissed Luka, half-peering over the edge inside.
“Still nothing!” Franz replied, trying to conceal his chewing. “Looking!”
50
Luka lifted his head a bit higher, leaned over the edge, but kept his eyes elsewhere.
“Not that,” he whispered urgently. “You have to see this.”
Franz frowned, got to his feet, and stood on a crushed plastic bin for a better view.
Out in the clearing, slowly pacing around the west side of Building A was something
he’d never seen before.
“A Healer?” Luka asked cautiously.
“Looks like it,” said Franz. “Quick, help me out.”
He landed on the wet pavement, pulling his worn hood over his hair against the
rain, and joined his friend back behind the dumpster, out of sight, as the figure walked
past. They watched him from the dank shadows, white eyes wide in fear, or anger.
“Come on,” Franz nudged, and they followed, hands in pockets, as if on a casual
stroll.
The Healer turned a corner, into an alley, and the two of them paused at the
entrance, looked around. The street was deserted. Behind them, the forest was awash
in orange leaves dissolving in the rain. Franz checked a pile of garbage, found a heavy
wood plank and an old rusted pipe in the mix. He handed the wood to Luka, motioned
to head in.
The Healer was staring at an open window on the third floor, its fire escape too
high to reach. He ran his finger along the handleless metal door before him, the only
break in the ominous concrete structure. He backed away carefully, then he lowered
his head, paused, and turned around to see Franz and Luka, inching toward him,
closing in on their prey.
“Fuckin’ killer,” Franz spat, swinging the pipe from side to side. “Come to finish
what you started, eh?”
He lashed out with the pipe at a distance, and the Healer stepped back, held his
hands up, cautiously, as if he were asking for peace. Still, no words. No expression to
read.
“Not so smug, are ya?” Luka said, circling the Healer menacingly. “Couldn’t kill us
all with your germs, so now y’have to fight like a man!”
“He’s not a man,” Franz sneered. “A man has a soul. This is a baby-killer!”
51
Luka’s eyes started to water, his face twisting, and Franz gaped at the sight. Luka
wiped his eyes with his sleeve furiously, choking back tears, and his face turned red as
anger rushed through him.
“My son!” he screamed, and charged, swinging the board straight at the Healer’s
head. Its hand moved fast, bracing up to deflect the blow, and the board snapped in
two. The loose side flew against the wall in a shower of splinters. Luka skidded straight
into the Healer, who caught him by the throat with the other metallic hand, held him
tight.
Luka’s passion drained fast, so close to the mask, and he gasped for desperate
breaths, dropping the rest of the board at his feet.
The Healer spoke in a raspy, processed voice. Words neither of them understood.
Tears kept running down Luka’s cheeks, but he never stopped staring into the empty
goggles.
Then, the Healer cocked his head slightly, and ducked out of the way as Franz’s
pipe swung past. It missed him, smashed into the side of Luka’s face, a loud crunch
echoing out. The Healer dropped the body and stepped aside, facing his next opponent.
Franz gasped at the sight of his friend in a pool of blood, his pipe smeared red too.
He re-gripped the metal, inhaled slowly, letting his fury boil over.
“You fucking murderer!” he screamed, and charged again, swinging madly. The
Healer side-stepped the attack, grabbed the pipe and twisted. Franz felt his wrist pop,
and he lost his grip, his footing. A rough hand grabbed the back of his coat, shoving
him into the hospital wall. He stumbled back, nose bleeding, then was dragged by his
hair, crying out in pain.
The Healer held the pipe up as if to strike, but then tossed it away, across the alley,
never taking his gaze of Franz. He spoke, again in a tongue Franz didn’t understand.
“Fuck you,” Franz said through the blood and pain. “Fuck you and fuck your
Chinese whore mother.”
No reaction. Franz spat blood onto the mask.
Then he noticed it… the handle of a blade on the belt. A machete. He made a mad
grab for it, snatching the tip with his fingers. The hand pulled his hair tighter, and he
looked up. The Healer shook his head ‘no’. Very slowly. Very solidly.
52
Rain poured down, running across his battered face, drips pounding into the hand
on the blade. He felt the strain of the grip on his hair, but saw no emotion in the mask,
and it unnerved him.
He pulled, heard the blade come free, and in a moment of elation, pulled it back to
thrust… his face betraying a smile…
But just as quickly, the Healer planted a calculated blow to his chest, felt his ribs
crack, and the machete fell from his hand, straight into the enemy’s. He desperately
gasped for breath, but none came. And then in an instant, he felt a hand on his chin, a
quick crack, and then nothing at all.
The Healer carefully lowered the body to the ground, laying the arms across the
chest respectfully. He glanced back at Luka, the pool of blood growing and diluting in
the rain, running down the slight incline towards the sewers.
A woman screamed hysterically, and he stood quickly, machete ready. She stood at
the entrance to the alley, hand to her mouth, her soaked clothes dripping dirty water
in streams at her feet. She stumbled back, eyes darting between Franz, Luka and the
Healer, terrified.
She yelled for help, called for the police, and ran off, out of view, leaving him alone,
isolated. He quickly looked around himself, machete loose in his hand, backed himself
into the corner with enough room to fight. He heard the sounds of angry men yelling,
of metal and wood and other would-be weapons being pulled out of trash bins. The
sounds of an angry mob forming.
“You!” called a French voice from behind, and he turned, saw the metal door, now
open. Anouma leaned out carefully, anxiously. “This way! Hurry!” she hissed.
53
10
PRAHA 5 POLICE STATION, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The end of the hall was shut off with misty plastic taped to the walls, ceiling and
floor. A biohazard sticker was peeling off in the middle. Eva slowed her pace as she
approached it, but the cops shoved her forward, then jerked her to a stop at a door to
her right. A paper hung over the ‘Janitor’ sign.
“Interrogation Room B,” Eva muttered.
“Someone sneezed in A,” the female cop grunted, opening the door to a tiny room,
a table improbably wedged inside a closet space. “Lucky you.”
Eva was thrown into the chair at the back of the table, landing with a whimper. The
two cops sidled around to the far side, sat down casually, and leaned back in silence.
The woman was thickly built, with a strong jaw and short hair, cut in a five-yeartoo-late style. The man was gruff, large and balding, his brow deep; when he clenched
his jaw, it almost changed the shape of his face as the bones clicked into a new
arrangement.
“Ms Kolikov,” began the woman, not making eye contact. “My name is Inspector
Sobotka. This is Inspector Crew.”
“You’re… you’re Foreign Police?” Eva ventured.
Crew chortled, stroked his stubbly chin.
“Why? Not an immigrant, are you?”
Eva met his eyes nervously.
“No…” she answered.
“Good thing. Shouldn’t be any immigrants any more, yeah?”
54
“No, Ms Kolikov,” smirked Sobotka. “We’re just your average cops, taking care of
average business.”
Eva watched them watching her, said nothing.
“Of course,” mused Crew, “my papa was with the Foreign Police. Must have some
of it in my blood, yeah? ‘Cause when I saw your file going by, I said to myself: that’s
someone we ought to have a chat with.”
“I thought so too,” nodded Sobotka.
“Pff, maybe just common sense then,” smirked Crew, leaning forward on the table
so it creaked under his immense weight. “We hear you had some trouble on the train.”
“It was a big misunderstanding,” Eva stammered. “I was just talking to this officer
when someone came out of nowhere and beat him up, and…”
“Killed two guards?”
“Really, I had nothing to do with that. I swear.”
They stared at her seriously for a moment, then Crew yawned noisily.
“Let’s move on. Tell us about Paris.”
Eva blinked.
“I… uh… well, I went to school there. University.”
“Studying what?” Sobotka queried, clicking a pen open, and flipping through a few
papers in a folder.
“Fine arts,” Eva replied.
“What about computer science? I have you enrolled in that, but nothing about fine
arts. That’s pretty strange, now isn’t it?”
“I switched majors.”
“Interesting. What was your minor? Biology, maybe?”
Eva paused, swallowed slowly.
“No,” she said softly.
“I’m sorry, hearing’s going; what did you say?” Crew asked, cupping his hand to
his ear.
“I didn’t study biology,” Eva said clearly, then sat up a bit straighter, squinted at
them like she was preparing for a storm.
“How long have you been making viruses?” Sobotka asked.
55
Eva didn’t flinch.
“I don’t make viruses,” she replied. “I’m a painter. I make—”
“Yeah, yeah, yeah,” interrupted Crew, waving his hand at her. “and the hitman’s
not a hitman, he’s a plumber. You’re not the first to dream up a cover, kid.”
“It’s not a cover. I don’t make viruses. I wouldn’t even know where to start.”
Crew grunted, stood up roughly.
“I’ve gotta piss,” he said, slapping his partner on the shoulder. “Call me when she
stops lying.”
Sobotka eyed Eva carefully as Crew strode out of the room. She folded her hands
together, leaned forward slightly.
“What’s up with your mum?”
Eva looked up like she’d been run over by a car.
“I don’t know,” she said.
“You two were close?”
“Y-yes.”
“All that time you were roaming around Europe, she found a way to get you care
packages every month. Not many parents would do that kind of thing.”
“I… I guess.”
Eva exhaled deeply, sunk a bit lower in her chair. Sobotka leaned back, crossed her
arms, stared at the wall past Eva.
“We heard you watching the news this morning. Did you happen to catch the story
about the kid with the breakfast cereal?”
Eva’s eyes shifted left and right.
“Um. Yeah.”
“That was us. I mean, we found the kid. Used to be, we’d be chasing murderers and
thugs and thieves and such. Now we call it a victory if we find a kid who kept himself
alive without our help.”
“It’s good he’s alive.”
“He’s got Bonn-22. A week to live, tops.”
Eva said nothing.
56
“But you can see how, after living and breathing that shit for the last few years,
when we see someone like you in our fair city, it brings a certain… liveliness to our
day.”
A grunting from the hall signalled Crew’s return, and the door swung open as he
lurched in, a large machine in tow. He lifted it with two hands, creaking its handle, and
dropped it on the table in front of Eva. It was browned and burnt, cracked in places
and looked to be barely functional. Its large, square screen was warped, and the clear
glass canister in its core was growing mould at the edges. Still, it was clear to Eva what
it was.
“An incubator?” she asked.
“Oh, so you do know about making viruses!”
“No, I—”
“What was your mum doing with a pack of refill capsules?” Sobotka asked, a smirk
on her face. Crew dropped himself into his seat, put a foot on the table.
“I don’t know,” Eva said quietly.
“You don’t know?” Sobotka continued. “Okay, let me try this again. You mother
was in possession of some highly illegal materials, as well as numerous documents
relating to the manufacture of viruses. Why do you think that is?”
“She’s an expert at epidemiology. It’s probably part of her research.”
“Sure. I get it. Yeah. So… switching gears… let’s talk about travel. Where’ve you
been since you left Paris?”
Eva shifted in her seat.
“A bunch of places,” Eva said, willing her face not to flush. “Spain, Italy, Austria,
Germany. I passed through others on the way, but it’s tricky to get past borders because
of the outbreaks.”
Sobotka nodded.
“Must have been hard,” she said, almost kindly. “But you seem to have made it
through all right. Did you travel alone?”
Eva paused.
“No,” she said.
57
“Our records show you were with someone named, one second...” Sobotka flipped
open a folder, skimmed a few pages. Crew leaned over, pointed down to a spot low on
the page, and she nodded to him. “Right, Rhodri Tenant. British national. Is that
right?”
Eva nodded: “Yes.”
“Boyfriend?”
“Was.”
“Bad break-up?”
Eva looked at her hands, fidgeted her thumbs.
“I’d rather not talk about him,” she said quietly.
Sobotka paused, nodded.
“Fair enough,” she said. “We’re here for you anyway.”
Crew grinned.
“So when did you start making viruses?” he asked.
“I told you, I don’t make viruses! I don’t know how!”
“But you’re pretty good at computers, right?”
“I don’t know. Just average, I guess.”
Crew scratched his cheek absentmindedly.
“You got into the University of Paris’ computer science graduate program. As a
foreign student. At nineteen. That’s gotta say something about your skills, right?”
She didn’t reply. He put his other foot on the table, waved his muddy boots from
side to side.
“See, my question is this: why wouldn’t you look at making viruses? Someone like
you, having a doctor for a mum, and this computer science education, and that stint in
prison—”
“Excuse me?” Eva gasped, her face turning bright red.
“The year in prison? What, you forgot?”
“I… how did you…”
“Oh, it’s all right here. Hacked a bank when you were fifteen, left behind enough
crumbs that the cops up in Sweden found you, and spent a year in jail for it.”
Eva’s eyes were starting to water. Sobotka continued.
58
“And what’s shocking to me is that it says here that your father was the one that
requested you be tried as an adult. Your own father! That must have stung.”
“Her dad’s a dick,” Crew nodded.
“Those files were supposed to be sealed,” Eva muttered.
“It’s funny,” Crew said, cracking his knuckles. “Things have a way of unsealing
themselves, when they meet the right criteria.”
“What kind of criteria?” Eva asked.
“A pattern of using technology for criminal acts. Hacking banks, making viruses.
It’s a bit of an evolution of technique, but it sounds the same to me.”
“I don’t make viruses!” Eva shouted, tears in her eyes.
“Let’s come back to that,” Sobotka said, leaning forward as Crew looked away. “See,
looking at your travel history these last few years… what strikes me is that you seem to
have been in a variety of cities around Europe just before they got shut down with
major outbreaks.”
“We left when things were looking bad.”
“I’ll say.”
“A lot of people left when things were looking bad. Wouldn’t you?”
“I dunno,” mused Crew. “I think I’d stick it out and fight for my city. How ‘bout
you, Sobotka?”
Sobotka nodded slowly.
“How’d your mother take being fired, Ms Kolikov?” she asked.
“Excuse me?”
“Your mother was fired from the World Health Organization three weeks ago.
Dereliction of duty. After twenty years of service. She got chewed out pretty bad in
public. That must have hurt her.”
“I… I didn’t know.”
“When did you talk to her last?”
“About two months ago. I haven’t been able to reach her since.”
“Not even last night?”
Eva blinked. The two inspectors were stone-faced, but their tone spoke volumes
about their confidence. She was headed into a trap, and she had no idea what it was.
59
“What about last night?”
“You’re entitled to a lawyer, of course, but it’s not easy getting one here in person
anymore. Especially to defend foreigners. Foreigners who just arrived.”
“I don’t understand —”
“Modena, Italy. Graz, Austria. Linz, Austria. Nuremberg, Germany. It seems pretty
odd that every time you and your boyfriend leave a town, a massive outbreak hits and
wipes out half the population. Doesn’t it?”
Eva said nothing, clasped her hands together.
“You can imagine how excited we are that you stopped by,” she said darkly.
“Especially given the little warning you sent us.”
Eva looked back and forth to them, eyes wide.
“What warning?”
Crew snorted, flipped out his phone and tapped a few buttons. He handed it over
to her, screen sideways, and she saw a video playing…
Time-lapse clouds rolled through grey skies, distorted at the edges by flickering
compression. There was audio to it, faint on the tiny speaker, but she thought it might
be German. Then, atop the clouds, letter in cold, stark black letters: “January 8:
Modena-1”.
“That was sent to the Mayor’s office three weeks ago,” Sobotka said. “The voice is
computer-generated, totally fake. Speaking German. Took us a while to translate, but
this is the gist…”
“March 2: Graz-3,” the screen said now.
“Let’s see,” Sobotka said, flipping through her notes, then read dryly: “The greed
and hypocrisy of society is a cancer on humanity which must be removed at all costs
before the blah, blah, blah. You get the point.”
“I don’t… I don’t understand…” Eva said. “What does this have to do with me?”
“April 21: Linz-1,” said the text.
“The video arrived through a proxied mail server in Russia, but since the Russians
have become so touchy about communications lately, they were able to tell us where it
came from before it hit their borders. And you’ll never guess what we found.”
“July 6: Nuremberg-5,” said the text.
60
“The originating account was registered to your mother,” Sobotka said, leaning in.
“But apparently, there was a secondary account on the file. Your account. And
forensics is pretty sure it’s a match.”
Eva blinked, looked from Sobotka to Crew and back again, felt her stomach turn
inside out. She looked down at the video, saw the words changing again, and gasped
when she read them:
“December 1: Prague-1.”
She looked up at the inspectors, panic swelling over her.
“So tell me, Ms Kolikov,” said Crew. “How’re we gonna die on December 1?”
61
11
PRAHA 5 POLICE STATION, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Eva was trembling, tears in her eyes.
“This isn’t me. I didn’t… I don’t know anything about this!”
“Your history of criminal behaviour indicates otherwise,” said Sobotka. “So what
did you do? Come home with a new brew ready to strike, found out your mother’d had
a change of heart? Killed her to keep her quiet? Is that it?”
“Killed her? She’s dead?” she cried. “No, that’s not… What’s going on? Where is
she?”
Crew chortled.
“You tell us.”
Sobotka slammed her fist down on the table, jolting Eva into silence.
“Ms Kolikov, you’re going to want to be a bit more forthcoming with us. The courts
being what they are these days, it can take months to get you to trial. And honestly, a
lot of prisoners come in with the sniffles—”
“Hold up,” Crew interrupted. “We don’t have time for—”
“Give me a minute,” Sobotka warned, then turned back to Eva. “I’m going to highly
recommend you tell us what we want to know, or we’ll have no reason to keep you in
isolation. Do you understand me?”
“Oh come on,” Crew vented. “Give me five minutes alone with her, that’s all we’ll—
”
Sobotka held a calming hand out to her partner and he paused, looked away, barely
keeping his frustration in check. Sobotka leaned close to Eva, squinting.
62
“I don’t think you’re going to tell us anything,” she said. “I think you’ll stonewall to
the end. And every minute I spend in here with you is another minute I’m not out there,
hunting the damn virus. So if you’re not going to come clean, tell me now so I can stop
wasting my time.”
“But I honestly don’t know what this is all about… you have to believe me…
please…”
Crew clenched his fists, looked like he was on the verge of boiling over with fury.
“Listen, you spoiled brat,” he seethed. “It may not look it to you, but this city ain’t
dead yet. This is my home. Even if I have to boil and sterilize every drop of water I use
in the shower, it’s still better than packing up and giving up. That’s what you and your
kind don’t get, and it makes me sick. It’s no great loss if Prague is wiped off the map,
right? Well you’re wrong!”
He got to his feet, shoving the chair against the wall. It toppled over behind him.
Eva jerked back, but he caught her by the hair, held her tight, leaned in furiously.
“Tell us where the virus is!” he yelled. “We don’t have time to watch you play
innocent here! Tell us where it is or I’m sending you to the most crowded cell I can
find, I swear to god!”
Eva was crying, trying to get free of his grip, pleading.
“Please…” she sobbed. “please, I don’t know… I don’t know anything about it…
please…”
“Crew, come on,” said Sobotka, stepping into the hall. “It’s not going to work. Leave
it.”
“Fuck it!” Crew growled, and slammed her head down into the table with such force
her nose started to tingle. She tasted blood in the back of her throat, her eyes swirled
with light. Crew stormed to the door, put his head in his hands, trying to regain his
composure.
“You’re going into lockup,” he growled. “and you’re not getting out.”
“Wait…” Eva sputtered, reaching out to him feebly.
“Too bad mama can’t help you now, hmm?” he smirked, and left the room,
slammed the door so powerfully it sounded like cracking wood. A thin shaft of light
63
beamed in along the bottom. Outside, shadows moved across the doorway, and she
heard the inspectors talking again.
“Forgot my keys,” called Crew. “Lock it for me.”
Footsteps came closer, a jingling, a sorting of keys, and Eva tensed.
“How much do you think she knows?” asked Sobotka.
“Who gives a shit. We’ve got to keep working the angles. We got any leads yet?”
Crew said, hushed.
“A few hits. It’ll take us a while to cover them all. You got time?”
“Apparently just a few days. Any ideas on where to start looking?”
“None, really. It’s complicated by her… you know…”
“Yeah.”
“So let’s print out a list and pick a place at random.”
Just then, Eva heard the faint ring of a cell phone, Crew answered, his voice quiet
and more distant as he walked away from the door. Then a click as the phone shut, and
he called to his partner: “We’ve gotta go. Something big in the west end. Captain says
Sestak’s asking for us directly.”
Hurried footsteps disappeared into echoes, and Eva was left in awful silence, the
wedge of light cutting straight across her ankles. She breathed slowly, shakily, waiting.
“Hello?” she asked the darkness. “Anyone coming to get me?”
She couldn’t hear a thing beyond her own breathing.
Carefully, quietly, she got out from her seat and edged towards the door. No sounds
at all. She touched the doorknob tentatively, listened for a sound, a voice, anything to
make her pause.
She turned the knob gently, and it clicked, popping the door open slightly. She
creaked it out further and peeked outside.
The hallway was yellowing like old paper; filthy water streaked the floor, no people
in sight. Eva leaned her head further out, checked both ways, and saw nothing. Nothing
to stop her. She shivered.
“I’m leaving the room now…” she whispered.
64
Less than a metre from the room, Eva heard a scuffle up ahead, like a paper
shifting. She froze, eyes wide. She heard a loud sigh, and a grunt. She searched the
hallway for someplace to hide.
There, a few steps ahead, another door off to her right, half-closed, lights off. She
waited, listened. The air filters in the ceiling hummed and hissed, and the fan
somewhere nearby ground its gears with a grating rumble. Then, another scuffle,
footsteps.
Eva held her breath and made a dash for the room, slipped inside and back behind
the door, the darkness piercing after the light of the hallway. She let the breath out
slowly, evenly, tried to hear outside again.
Footsteps now, closer, and she could see through the back of the door, black boots
outside the room, paused. Breathing, she heard breathing. A long pause.
The boots slid back a bit, then turned, and she could hear muttering as the
footsteps got further away. A calm, even pace. Eva exhaled again, her lungs loosening
a bit. She leaned closer to the hinges now, saw into the hall, empty as before.
She turned round to leave when she noticed, back against the wall next to her, a
computer workstation. The screen was off, but its power light was on, casting a pale
green light across the room.
A police workstation.
She carefully and quietly slid over to the chair, sat down. It creaked a bit, and she
strained not to move anymore. She turned the brightness on the screen all the way
down with the dial on the front, and then powered it on. She could make out the words,
but took a moment to take in all the information.
There was a search box in the corner, cursor flashing on and off, inviting input.
Checking over her shoulder, Eva typed: ‘Kolikov’, and hit ‘enter’.
The screen refreshed in a second, showed two entries. Eva’s file, and Dasa Kolikov,
her mother. She hovered the cursor over her mother’s name, then clicked her own,
bringing up a file that included her passport photo and a few stills from the security
cameras on the train. She skimmed the file quickly, pausing only to try and discern the
meaning of ‘17-5’. No luck there, so she tore through the data, deleting and fabricating
65
information as fast as possible. By the time she finished, they’d know nothing about
her at all.
She smiled at a job well done and hit the ‘back’ button, diving into her mother’s
file. What she found was worse than she’d expected:
ARREST WARRANT #058833153
CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT MURDER
BIO-WEAPONS ACT VIOLATIONS
Eva involuntarily put a hand to her mouth, gasped quietly.
“Oh, mama…” she said. “What happened?”
She heard a crackle in the room, but no time to react. A hand wrapped round Eva’s
mouth, pushing down, and she couldn’t breathe. She flailed, cracking her wrist against
a desk, and wasting the last of her breath on a scream no one could hear.
66
12
SKIPTON HOUSE, LONDON, ENGLAND
NOVEMBER 28
“I didn’t expect to see you here so soon, Will,” said the Director as Carey shuffled
in the door, a pack of papers under his arm. He smiled weakly, made his way to the
chair opposite his boss’ giant throne of a seat, and almost fell into it. Janice trailed him
like an impressive shadow; the kind that outshines its owner.
The room was like a photo gallery, a shrine to people the Director knew (or had
been photographed with). Carey could see former Prime Ministers, rock stars, athletes
and famous scientists. One picture of the current Prime Minister had a message
scrawled across the front in silver ink: ‘We’ll beat this together!’ — the slogan he’d won
on.
Everything about the room was ‘old school.’ The desk looked to be over a hundred
years old, the lamps and general decor smelled of Victorian spit and polish. There was
a large map on the back wall — the biggest single space in the room not yet turned into
a mosaic of tiny frames — showing the British Empire sometime before the First World
War.
The Director was a man who loved glory, who killed and mounted it on his walls to
show his dominion over it.
“Sorry to barge in like this, sir,” Carey said, trying to gather some of the papers
back into something resembling a pile. He knocked an ink blotter off the edge of the
desk and ducked down after it, smacking his head against the desk on the way. He
came back up holding his head and the blotter, and his papers drifted out of his hands
and onto the floor. Janice sighed loudly.
“Sorry, sorry…” Carey said again.
67
“Not at all, Will, not at all!” boomed the Director, apparently enjoying how his
office intimidated people. “Listen, would you like a drink? And you, miss?”
“No, sir. Thank you, sir,” said Janice flawlessly.
“Um, if you don’t—” Carey began, before Janice kicked his shin so subtly she nearly
didn’t move. “I mean no sir, I’m good, thanks.”
The Director nodded at this, leaned back in his chair, started spinning an ornate
letter opener on his desk in a way that made Carey sweat. He grabbed the top paper
from his pile and nervously, shakily, handed it over.
“We’ve found something, sir,” he said, and tapped the paper lightly. “Something
that could be quite bad.”
The Director took the paper lightly, nudged his reading glasses on his long pointed
nose and sniffed loudly, like he was jarring his brain into gear. He smacked his lips
once or twice, squinted, and then started to read it, because his face hardened abruptly.
He looked up, and Carey immediately looked away.
“What is this?” the Director asked, his voice low.
“Um… Janice?” Carey invited.
Janice cleared her throat to speak, but the Director leaned forward suddenly, with
a low growl to his voice.
“This is a senior level meeting, my dear. You’re excused.”
“But sir,” protested Carey. “Janice is—”
“Not a part of this conversation, Will. You are excused, miss.”
Janice blinked, confused, but then put on her more composed face, and carefully
backed out of the room without a word. Carey was left alone with the stone-faced man
with the old colonial empire at his back, and he felt horribly alone.
“You were stationed in Madrid, weren’t you, Will?” the Director said, creaking back
in his chair.
“Yes. Yes sir. Eight years.”
“So you’re a team player. You know what’s at stake here. I don’t need to go over
how a little information can do a lot of wrong.”
Carey shook his head slowly.
“No, sir.”
68
“Excellent. So tell me about these papers, Will.”
“It’s… it’s… well, it’s the transmission logs for Zemus Pharmaceuticals, sir. It seems
that they’re… uh… they seem to be integrating vaccines into their booster shot
programme without… er… testing them.”
“Are we sure about this?” said the Director, his voice dispassionate but somehow
accusing.
“Yes, sir, we are. And we… we think we’ve found out why.”
Carey handed over the next set of papers in the stack, a listing of communications
in excruciating detail, complete with timestamps and origin addresses.
“It… at first we thought Zemus had been… well, maybe compromised by some
malicious persons. Trying to… you know… well…”
“Spread a virus through a booster shot,” said the Director, obviously quicker than
Carey had been.
“But… well… as you can see, sir, the bypass orders all came from a single person, a
registered person, and we have good reason to believe he was the one making the
inputs himself.”
The Director looked up from the paper, bore into Carey.
“Is this who I think it is?”
“Yes, sir, I’m afraid so.”
The Director laid the paper down on his desk, folded his hands above it, closed his
eyes. His jowls trembled as he breathed, and he looked like a beast from a nature video,
so unreal you wouldn’t have believed it existed. The Director’s brow furrowed slightly.
He was thinking, and Carey felt like he was intruding on a private moment.
“Will,” the Director said, opening his eyes, staring coldly at Carey. “Thank you for
bringing this to my attention.”
He paused again, seemed to be thinking, sniffed, his face twitched. He licked his
lips slowly, then leaned forward, his suit’s worn elbows pushing down on the scattered
papers around the desk.
“Can I ask… what made you leave Madrid? Was it stress? Family?”
Carey looked at his hands.
“I was recalled, sir. The… uh… the Dominguez case, if you know it.”
69
“I don’t think I do.”
Carey continued to avoid eye contact.
“To be brief, sir: there was a woman named Rosa Dominguez who hadn’t made it
back before the Containment Order went into force, and had since tested positive for
P-150.”
“So the boys in Brighton would have refused to quarantine her, even if you let her
back in.”
“Exactly. I was tasked with delivering her Notice of Exile, but her name made it
extremely hard to pin her down. I eventually did, down in Alicante, at a spa there. She’d
apparently saved for years for a vacation, and had decided to go through with it despite
the border closing.”
“Foolish,” the Director said with a grunt. “Foolish and tragic.”
“Ms Dominguez was a rather stubborn woman, I’m afraid. She refused to come out
of her full body mud pack session to meet me, so I was forced to go in and deliver her
Notice against her wishes.”
“It was the right thing to do, Will. Absolutely the only call.”
“Yes sir. Well… Ms Dominguez didn’t see it that way. She filed suit against the
Ministry for sexual harassment. Given the… uh… full-body nature of the mud pack.”
“Ah. I see.”
“They settled rather than suffer the publicity, and I was put behind a desk in your
fine department, sir.”
“And what of Ms Dominguez?”
“She used the settlement money to buy the spa.”
“Good on everyone, then.”
Carey nodded unhappily.
“Yes, sir.”
“Well then,” the Director said, puffing up again. “How do you feel about working
behind a desk?”
Carey was automatic and severely mechanical:
“Very good, sir. Most rewarding.”
70
“I don’t think you believe that, Will. I think you’re hating it. Papers and
spreadsheets and kissing the right ass in the right way… it’s not who you are, is it?”
Carey honestly did not know what to say.
The Director took the papers he’d received, held them under his desk, and Carey
heard the sound of a paper shredder eating the evidence. The Director didn’t take his
eyes off Carey, just sat there as the sounds whirred below, like he wasn’t doing what he
was doing, and anyone that indicated otherwise was mad.
The last of the papers disappeared and the Director put his hands back on his desk,
interlocking his calloused fingers lightly.
“I am removing you from your position in the Department.”
“But sir—”
“You are now working as my chief investigator. You report to me, and me alone. I
want you to use your experience on the Continent to keep things at home under better
control. Starting with this Zemus mess. It must be dealt with quickly and quietly. No
one but the two of us should hear of it, do you understand me?”
“Yes sir,” nodded Carey, then shuddered. “But sir! Janice knows! What should we—
”
“Janice is replacing you as department head, of course. She’s got a good head on
her shoulders, I can tell. But even still, what she knows — without the backing evidence
— that’s inconsequential. From here on out, these secrets stay between us.”
“Yes sir.”
“Zemus have a new booster coming out in three weeks, and I don’t think anyone
could stand the financial or political fallout if it were to be pulled over a scandal.”
“Sir…?”
The Director leaned in close, eyes narrow, his voice so quiet, Carey found himself
leaning forward to hear.
“I’ve known this man my entire life. He is a good soul, Will, a very good fellow. And
yet…” his gaze shifted, he was looking past Carey, but at nothing, “… yet, I can see this
being true. I can see him doing this because he thinks it’s the best way to protect the
public.”
Carey nodded.
71
“But it’s against the law,” said the Director, and Carey stopped nodding abruptly,
frowned. “And he has to learn to accept it. So I need you to talk to him, Will, and let
him know that we know, and unless he quits now, it’ll only be a matter of time before
it gets out. You tell him — not for me, you understand — you tell him that he needs to
submit those vaccines for proper testing, and to follow normal procedure from now
on.”
Carey nodded weakly, understanding.
“He means well. But one mistake could…” he met Carey’s eyes, and he was sad, sad
for his friend and the trouble this would be. “One mistake could gut our country, Will.
You have to make him understand.”
72
13
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The rear stairwell to the hospital was dark and dank, littered with junk that had
accumulated over years of disuse. Down on the ground level, masses of biohazard
canisters littered the floor, scratched and worn by staff that had left long ago. No one
had been in this shaft for some time; the only lighting was the thin strip of red
emergency beacons along the edge of the steps.
Anouma faced the Healer, his cold visage made demonic by the surroundings. She
was exposed here, alone in a place where no one would find her body for weeks — if
ever. Alone with a murderer. She grabbed the railing with a slippery hand, her
handheld flashlight dangling from the lanyard around her neck.
“Why are you here?” she asked, her voice cracking, her French precise, tentative.
The Healer observed her for a moment.
“You know why I am here,” he replied, rough and distorted through his mask. “You
have information about LS-411. You will tell me now.”
He took a step forward, and Anouma held out a warning hand, her jaw setting.
“I want to know what you will do if you find this strain. What are your orders?”
“My orders are to diagnose and contain.”
“Contain how?” she asked, lowering her arm but not breaking her eye lock.
The Healer didn’t move for a moment, except to twitch his head to the side.
“Containment requires the destruction of the host, usually by lethal injection.
Sometimes incineration is deemed necessary, as well.”
Anouma nodded slowly, her eye twitching with fury.
73
“So you find the sick and kill them? They did not do this to themselves! The ones
that infected them are still out there, and you let them go?”
The Healer was shaking his head at her.
“Euthanizing the general population is inefficient. It is not my commission. I
contain only the vectors.”
“The vectors…”
“The hosts that infect the rest. The closer to the source, the better. These diseases
tend to be built poorly. They lose virulent qualities as they pass each generation. The
closer to the source, the greater the effectiveness of containment.”
“So if my patient is the vector for LS-411…”
“I will perform my duty.”
Anouma crossed her arms, shook her head.
“That is unacceptable. I cannot let you do that.”
The Healer stared up the stairwell, back at Anouma.
“You have confirmed the patient is here. Your permission is irrelevant.”
He turned and started up the stairs, a soft metal clang at every footfall. Anouma
called after him as he reached the first landing.
“This is one of the biggest hospitals in Europe!” she said, her voice cracking with
anger. “In this wing alone, we have seven usable floors, with a thousand patients per
floor.”
The Healer turned around, stepped a few steps down, stared at her ominously in
the red light. She kept her arms crossed, stood her ground.
“And I have not said if the patient is in this wing at all.”
There was a brief pause. A liquid dripped in the shadows, hit a pool amongst the
biohazard containers. It sounded thick.
“What do you want?” the Healer said.
“You must promise you will not kill him.”
“That is not in my power to promise,” he said, shaking his head.
“Then I wish you good luck up there. Especially once I tell the police you broke in.”
74
The Healer made its way down the stairs again, moved quickly and silently towards
Anouma, until he had her pinned against the railing. His mask hissed spent carbon
dioxide into her face.
“I can get the information from you however I choose,” he breathed angrily. “I am
not bound by your doctors’ ethics.”
Her expression didn’t change.
“But I am, so I will never tell you. Never, unless you swear to leave him alive.”
Without warning, the Healer grabbed Anouma by the throat, pushed her back
against the concrete wall. His fingers tightened around her, but didn’t finish the job.
Anouma held her breath, terrified, but didn’t betray any emotion.
They stayed frozen, neither one budging.
The Healer let her go.
“I will not euthanize your patient,” he said, stepping away. “But you must show
him to me now. No more delays.”
Anouma rubbed her neck for a moment, then nodded and took her flashlight in her
hand again.
“This way,” she said, starting up the stairs. He followed close behind.
There was a general grit to the steps that was slippery, yet rough. She couldn’t see
what it was, nor did she see the glass that crunched harshly underfoot along the way.
They moved slowly, cautiously, careful to avoid stepping on used needles. Mouldy
pillows, shredded gowns, and a bloodstained sink lay cracked along the way.
“What is your name?” she asked as they passed the third floor.
The Healer thought a moment.
“We have no names,” it said, simply.
“Your French is better than I thought.”
There was a pause as they walked. The Healer sounded hesitant.
“We are trained to communicate with medical personnel.”
“You handle it well.”
“I… I have had time to practice.”
Another half-floor later, it spoke again:
“What is your name?”
75
“Dr Anouma,” she replied. “Fanta Anouma. Médecins Sans Frontières.”
“I know your colleagues.”
“And they know you, too. Here… wait here.”
She left him standing there on the steps and creaked open the fourth-floor fire
door. She leaned into the hallway beyond, the pale light casting a soft shadow in the
shaft next to him. He walked up behind the door, watched her carefully.
“Dr Anouma!” came a voice, a man, from the hall. Anouma jumped at the sound.
She drifted further out, let the door slide closed behind her, held open just enough for
her hand to peek through.
“Dr Laroche!” she said, failing to sound as calm as she wanted to be. “Is everything
okay?”
Dr Laroche was close now. The Healer could see his shadow mixed with Anouma’s
underneath the door.
“Fine, fine,” he said. “Just grabbing some supplies for the floor. Why are you using
the back stairwell? It’s not safe there, is it? There are discarded needles everywhere.”
The Healer tensed, lay a hand on his machete.
“Oh, no. I was just… I heard a young patient on the fifth floor talking about a special
fort he had built back here, and I thought I should check it out.”
“Really! The things kids dream up!”
“I know… it seemed silly to me, but—”
The door pushed open more, and Dr Laroche’s voice was near. The Healer
unsheathed his weapon, held it ready.
“Did you find anything?” Laroche asked.
“No!” Anouma gasped. “No, nothing. Many discarded needles, as you said. I would
not risk going in there. Who knows what people discarded.”
Dr Laroche chuckled to himself, but the door stayed open. The Healer did not
move.
“Might want to get the boy checked for dementia if he’s coming up with imaginary
forts in the darkness. Could be Waterloo or London-9. Wouldn’t want him crosscontaminating his roommates.”
“Certainly not, I agree. I will order the tests.”
76
A brief pause, and then the door swung shut.
“I’ll be down in the pit if you need anything!” Dr Laroche called, his voice getting
fainter as he walked away. “Say hello to Adjobi for me!”
“I will!” Anouma replied, then waited quietly for a minute, not moving at all. She
began to push the door open again. The Healer caught it with an impatient grab,
shoved it all the way open, and pushed past her into the hall.
“You lie well,” he said, taking stock of the surroundings. “Which one is it?”
“This one,” Anouma said, leading the way into a room halfway down the hall. She
came to a stop at the bedside of a sickly-looking African man, wired with a dozen
monitors and IVs, breathing weakly under the pressure of his yellowed hospital
blankets. His eyes were closed; they fluttered wildly in his sleep.
His skin sat on him strangely, like a man who was once full of life, round and happy,
and whose joy had been chiselled away until he was nearly a living corpse. A shadow
of better times ghosted in his face.
“This is the patient,” Anouma said solemnly. “My brother, Dr Adjobi Anouma.”
77
14
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Anouma took Adjobi’s hand and rubbed his fingers gently, and he opened his eyes.
At first he didn’t notice his visitor, but when he caught a glimpse of the mask, he
panicked, tried to climb up the back of his bed as if it were an escape route.
“Shhh, quiet, brother,” Anouma said, and put a hand on his shoulder, gently
pushing him back down. His heart monitor rang louder and louder, a red light flashing
more urgently on the console above the bed. An emergency call button. The Healer put
a hand on his machete.
“Quiet, quiet now,” Anouma said with a soft voice. “He is here to help you.”
She turned her gaze to the Healer, hopeful. After a brief moment, he put his hands
out, palms up, and bowed as a gesture of goodwill. It worked well enough: Adjobi’s
heart rate was calming fast. Anouma stroked her brother’s head, and though he was
much less agitated, his eyes were wide with fear.
“Adjobi and I came from Ferké three years ago—” she began.
“What is Ferké?” interrupted the Healer, “Where is this place?”
“What is it to you?” Adjobi said, then coughed a hoarse, dry cough.
“If your infection began in another town, I must travel. I have no information that
LS-411 is anywhere but Prague.”
“Ferkessédougou is in Côte d'Ivoire,” Anouma said. “In Africa.”
The Healer nodded slightly.
“There are no synthetic diseases down there,” Adjobi said, wincing at a sudden
pain. “Whatever it is I have, I got it right here.”
“Besides,” said Anouma, “they do not let sick doctors help in the relief.”
78
The Healer tilted his head.
“Relief,” he echoed.
“Six weeks ago,” Anouma continued. “these lesions appeared on Adjobi’s neck and
chest...” she held out his arm and showed a purplish patch no more than a few
centimetres across, shiny even in the dim light.
“At first we thought he had contracted something from one of the patients here, so
we started him on Pathenex and kept him in isolation. Unfortunately, the other
symptoms he developed do not fit with any disease we have encountered before. We
have compared it to every entry in the WHO Pandemic Database. No one has made a
virus this way before.”
The Healer leaned a bit closer to Adjobi, mask hissing at regular intervals.
“What other symptoms?” he asked.
Anouma held the LS-411 card, blocking his view; her voice grew stronger. A bit
more resolve.
“These,” she said simply, and dropped the card onto the bed. The Healer stood up
straight and looked towards the sealed window, the drawn curtains blocking the faint
light from outside.
“Your brother did not die within days. He must be a carrier, not a victim. Most of
your diseases… they make longer the life of the vector. To infect more. You have done…
done good in isolating him. You have slowed the spread.
“It is usual for a vector to show symptoms. I have only seen this once before, where
the host was bed-ridden.”
“How did it turn out?” Anouma asked.
“Badly.”
“So what, then?” Adjobi asked. “I’m not the vector? There was someone else before
me?”
The Healer nodded, removed a black pouch from his belt. The two doctors became
noticeably tense. He paused, hand over it, not opening it up.
“I will require a blood sample to verify… but in my experience, you do not look like
a first-degree vector.”
Anouma’s face betrayed a smile.
79
“Then you will leave him alone? You are only interested in the vector, yes?”
The Healer stared at the black pouch for a moment.
“I have given you my word,” he said quietly. “But my directives are to eliminate
hosts. I should euthanize him now.”
“But… but you won’t…” Anouma said, uncertain.
The Healer only looked at her.
“No, he won’t,” Adjobi said weakly. “And he won’t draw any blood either—”
“That is not what I said—” the Healer said.
“Because if he does, I won’t tell him who infected me.”
Both Anouma and the Healer looked at Adjobi, Anouma’s mouth hanging open
slightly. She took his hand in hers, squeezed it gently.
“Adjobi, what are you…”
“There was a man. An American. His name was Lewis. I never learned his last
name. He was a junkie, a sickly old thing. I was working the pit alone when his
girlfriend — a prostitute I think — came and begged me to check on him. He’d passed
out, possibly from an overdose. She couldn’t wake him, couldn’t move him, but she’d
brought her car, so she drove me to his house.
“When I got there, he was barely alive. I performed CPR and flushed his system
with the tools I had, and he seemed to be recovering well enough. But when he came
to, he was delirious, probably spooked by my hospital uniform. He… he stabbed me.
With a needle.”
Anouma covered her mouth in shock, sunk lower onto the bed.
“It didn’t hurt. I didn’t think much of it at the time. I flushed the wound, took the
standard stopper dose of Pathenex, and moved on.”
“You think he was your vector,” the Healer said.
“It would make sense. I got sick a few weeks after that. What else could it be?”
The Healer looked at the black pouch for a moment.
“Where does ‘Lewis’ live?”
“Michalská, house number 21, I think. It had a green door. That much I
remember.”
80
The Healer took hold of the pouch, put it back into his belt, did not look at either
Anouma or Adjobi. He turned away, heading to the door, dust swirling in his wake.
“Will you come back?” Anouma asked him. He stopped, looked at her, framed by
banks of monitors and equipment flowing wires onto the floor.
“Pray I do not,” he said, and left.
* * *
“That was… dangerous, Fanta,” said Adjobi, when they were sure the Healer had
gone. Anouma backed away from the door, returning to his side. Her eyes glistened
with fear.
“I am sorry, Adjobi. I thought the lesions matched yours… I thought he might help
you.”
“You know Healers don’t help anyone but their own. He might have killed me.”
Fanta lowered her head, contained her crying. Adjobi patted her hand with his,
weak, faltering.
“But it will be fine,” he said softly. “If he finds my vector, we might have hope. They
have some of the best minds in the world working there. If anyone can crack it, they
can. It’s a long shot, but we can’t lose hope.”
She smiled at him, but it was clear she didn’t share his optimism anymore.
“How do you feel today?” she asked.
“A bit better. I haven’t got much left to vomit, and the sedatives help with the rest.
No new lesions this week, either. It’s as close to ‘progress’ as I can manage, I think.”
“That is good. That is very good. Dr Bastien will be happy to hear it. He does not
get much happy news these days.”
“Oh?” asked Adjobi, straining to sit up a bit in bed.
“The Director of Public Safety is causing problems again,” Anouma explained. “He
has summoned Dr Bastien five times this week already, always without notice. I have
heard he is trying to implement a new policy to screen all aid workers.”
“We’re subject to that already…”
“Not like this. He is looking for anyone whose vaccines are not up to date, to have
them deported. A doctor in Ostrava contracted measles and passed it on to his patients,
81
and it has everyone scared. He wants to force every doctor in Prague to be fully
protected. From everything.”
“So are they going to provide us with the vaccines they withheld before, then?”
Adjobi said, his voice weak but increasingly angry.
“They say they still do not have the resources.”
“So they’d give up some of their best minds to satisfy some knee-jerk reaction…”
“Bastien is fighting it. He says they have no right to meddle with MSF affairs.”
“I doubt that,” Adjobi sighed. “But they’re still fools for trying. You have to refuse,
Fanta. I can’t be stuck in this hell hole alone. You have to stay hidden. At least until
Bastien gets word from Geneva...”
“I do not think we will hear from them soon,” Anouma said gravely. “He said not
to expect anything for many days, at least. The mail servers have been shutting down
often, too. No one knows what got out and what got lost.”
“You’ve got to be careful, then. You should be switching masks every few hours.
Carry extra gloves. Don’t take any chances, Fanta. All they need is for you to show signs
of a fever, and you’ll be caught.”
She lowered her eyes.
“Adjobi… why did you not tell me about your accident? It changes so much…”
Adjobi sighed, put a hand to his forehead, and the cables tugged gently at the
movement.
“Bastien would have left me for dead for disobeying his orders. He’d be mad as hell
if he knew I’d been galavanting around the city, Stall Kit in hand. No, it was too risky.
Better he think I got it from someone here than someone out there.”
Anouma nodded, quiet.
“He is wracked with guilt, though,” she said. “He thinks it is his fault.”
“Don’t read too much into Bastien’s guilt. He’s been wearing it round his shoulders
since before we got here. I’m not worried about adding to his sorrows. I’m scared to
death of disappointing him.”
Anouma smiled at this, patted his hand. Adjobi winced at pain somewhere in his
frail body, half-rolled to his side. His heart monitor beeped faster and faster, and then
slowed to a normal crawl.
82
“I will get more morphine,” she said, moving off the bed, but he caught her arm,
held her back.
“It’s okay,” he swallowed. “I’m fine. Don’t waste it on me. With any luck, that
monster you found will have a cure for me, and all of this will be a faint memory.”
“I would rather never see him again,” Anouma confided.
“Neither would I,” said Adjobi quietly. “but somehow I think we will.”
83
15
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The corpse tipped into a black body bag, joining errant rainwater that was skirting
off the roof into the alley. The workers, heavy masks strapped tight to their faces,
tossed it around callously, their shoulder-long black gloves squeaking from the effort.
Two of them stood impatiently above the other victim, blood long since drained.
Sobotka took one last look, stood up, and they moved in for disposal, this time with
yellow plastic. A sticker was glued to the head and toe, detailing the type and strength
of the virus found in the body.
The body bags were lazily added to a pile of other corpses, all colour-coded, waisthigh and exposed to the elements. Further down, the pile of yellow bags was being
loaded into a flatbed truck. It would take several trips to clear that stack, as tall as it
was.
Sobotka walked down towards the mouth of the alley and joined Crew, who was
interviewing a bruised old woman in bloodied clothes. Her eyes darted between them,
but never at them, like she was talking to ghosts and not people.
“A brown cloak?” Crew asked, tapping his pen on his notepad. “Anything else?”
The old woman nodded furiously.
“Yes! Yes, a dark face! Like a fly! He had no eyes! No eyes and no soul!”
Crew smiled a bit, jotted notes. Sobotka checked his scribblings, put a hand to the
woman’s shoulder.
“Did he hurt you, ma’am?”
“No. No no no, not me. Only Franz and whashisname. The one with the kids.
They’re upstairs, you know. He talks about them all the time.”
84
“I’m sure. So this dark-faced man… did he say anything to you?”
“No, no words, not to me. Though I heard a woman’s voice. She spoke something…
I can’t say what. It was foreign.”
“Have you heard it before?” Sobotka asked, checking back at the crime scene.
“Yes. Yes, I have. I’m sure I have.”
Crew stood a bit straighter, frowned at the woman.
“Where?”
“In my nightmares. It was the devil. The devil! I’m sure of it!”
Sobotka rubbed the woman’s grimy shoulder, and kindly lead her back to her
campsite off the side of the hospital.
“That’s good, ma’am. Thank you. You’ve been a big help.”
Crew was kicking over a bottle of antiseptic into the bloodstains when she got to
him. She looked at the large metal doors against the concrete facade, the piles of trash
everywhere.
“What do you think?” she asked, not making eye contact.
“Same thing you do. It’s gotta be.”
Sobotka’s phone buzzed quietly, and she flipped it out, put it to her ear, taking a
step back out of the rain.
“Sobotka,” she grunted. “Yes sir. I think it is, sir, yes. A Healer. It matches the
description perfectly. No face, the cloak, the bloodbath.”
Crew’s jaw set tightly.
“Yes sir,” Sobotka nodded. “We understand. Completely, yes. Not a problem. We’re
on it.”
“So the Cap’ agrees?” Crew asked as she shut the phone, “We’re good to go?”
“It wasn’t the Captain, it was Director Sestak. And we’re not good to go, he’s telling
us to leave it alone.”
“Alone? We’ve got two dead bodies here, and who knows how many more coming!
We can’t just ignore it!”
“Are you kidding me? It was an order, Crew! And he’s right. Healers are
untouchable. If anyone found out we were even looking at investigating a Healer, the
85
bunch of us would be called up on charges by sundown. The rules come from too high
up. Higher than us, higher than Sestak—”
“What, God himself?” Crew smirked. “Look at you. All for defending the peasants,
until the peasants meet some Chinese butcher, and then you’re fine with it?”
“Of course I’m not fine with it!” shouted Sobotka, and the nearby crowds turned to
stare. She lowered her voice, growling. “But this is a fight you can’t win, Crew. Without
the law on our side, at best we’re on even footing with a Healer. At best. And everything
I’ve heard says he’s got almost supernatural powers. You really want to go up against
that?”
Crew grinned.
“I do. I really do.”
“Look, I hate being pulled in a thousand directions as much as you do, but that’s
what we get for not retiring with everyone else. We have to cover extra ground…
ground we don’t want to cover. But what we don’t do is go looking for trouble where
there isn’t any!”
“This is trouble!”
“You know that’s not true!”
“You heard that woman! The Healer was talking to someone… some woman. Here
in the hospital. That means he’s got an accomplice. The President himself might be
watching the Healer’s back, but there’s nothing that says we have to let a Czech citizen
call him in! To me, that’s betraying your own. That’s treason.”
“You’re insane. We’ll never find a woman in a hospital of thousands, and we’ll
damn sure never be able to arrest her for talking to someone who is technically doing
nothing wrong.”
“You have no faith in the power of the badge, Sobotka.”
She growled, turned away, staring into the rain. The flatbed truck’s gates clanged
shut, its cargo full.
“Know what I’m thinking?” Crew called to her. “This isn’t a coincidence. This joker
shows up in the last days of November, right after we get that note.”
“You can’t be serious.”
86
“What? It’s beyond them? After this? After Russia? After what they did in their own
backyard?”
“It’s the wrong MO. It doesn’t fit, and you know it. We can’t waste time on
something like this when there is a real threat out there that needs our attention.”
“Listen. He’s already put two more in the pile. I’m not letting him add any more.”
Crew motioned to the pile of yellow body bags. The truck chugged to life and started
away, off to the incinerator. There were still hundreds of yellow body bags stacked in
the road. Sobotka shook her head, slumping her shoulders.
“You’re a fool.”
Crew shrugged.
“You with me, or do I do this alone?”
Sobotka shook her head, annoyed.
“We’ve got enough on our plates with the girl. That’s our job. That’s what we’re
paid to do. Sestak is waiting for results there. And it’s a real public safety issue, Crew.
This? This is just glory-hunting.”
“So I do it alone, then.”
“Damn right,” she said, burying her fists in her jacket pockets. A cold wind blew
across the alley, whipped her hair in her face. She clenched her teeth to keep the shivers
at bay. Crew stared at the ground, kicked at the dirt.
“You can’t take the car if it’s not official business,” Sobotka grumbled. “You’re on
foot. You’re going to be out in the snow, looking for a ghost. You sure you want that?”
“It’s not going to snow,” he said, pacing away from her, arms folded and chin out.
“It’s only November. It’ll slush a bit. I’ll survive.”
Sobotka watched him go, shaking her head to herself.
“I’m not so sure,” she said.
87
16
VIA RAINUSSO 108, MODENA, ITALY
APRIL 22, ONE YEAR EARLIER
The lead snapped off the pencil mid-stroke, ripping a hole in the page. Eva brushed
the fragments away, smudging the lines all around. It looked like a hole in the sky, a
tear in space. She checked the actual sky outside her window, pale blue with a few
clouds drifting. Very different worlds.
Her hands were shaking, but she tried to ignore it. Her legs were like sticks these
days, so thin. The roundness she’d been teased for in university had all melted away,
leaving a lean, almost sick-looking girl, wrapped in a light jacket and jeans.
She had just laid down the first lines on a new page when the door to the hotel
room opened and Rhodri entered, hands behind his back. His smile was contagious.
She shut the sketchbook and hopped off the wicker chair, meeting him before he could
kick his shoes off.
“Guess what I found?” he asked with a sly grin, turning this way and that, keeping
her from seeing behind him.
“Magic beans,” Eva teased, reaching around, meeting empty air as he dodged her.
“Magic beans won’t fill our bellies. Try again.”
Eva bit her lip, her stomach rumbling angrily. There was food in the room. This
was no time for games.
“If it’s stale bread again, you’re making way too much of a fuss about it.”
“It’s not stale, and it’s not bread. It’s…” he held out a pair of red, shiny apples. “A
treat!”
Eva could barely contain herself. She leapt at him, giving him a hug that made his
back crack. He blew her bobbed hair off his face and laughed.
88
“If you make me drop them, you’re homeless, got it?”
“How did you find them?” Eva gasped, pulling back, taking an apple in her hands.
“Last time I was down in the market, they were like ten euros each!”
“Eleven, actually. Inflation. Got the two for twenty, though.”
Eva’s face dropped slightly. She took a step back.
“Twenty? How did… how did you get that much money? I thought we were saving
that for emergencies. Things are tight, Rhodri, and I don’t know how much we can—”
“It’s not our emergency fund. That’s the second bit of news.”
Eva crossed her arms.
“Do tell.”
Rhodri took a large bite out of his apple, chewed noisily, a smile betraying how
much he was enjoying it. After a few chomps, he explained, words slurring from the
juice.
“I got a job.”
Eva leapt at him again, knocking him back a bit, wrapped her arms around him
and kissed him hard on the mouth. Sweetness from the apple juice. He started
laughing, kissed her back.
“So you’re happy for me, then?”
“How did you do it? There’s a company in town? Where? I thought we’d checked
everywhere, and—”
“You want to keep asking, or you want me to tell you?” he teased.
She unwrapped herself from him, threw herself on the bed, legs crossed, and
started eating her own apple. It was magnificently sweet, made her warm in the brisk
spring air. Rhodri kept standing, foot tapping madly on the ground. He was full of
excited energy, and it was infectious to watch.
“It’s not the kind of work you’re thinking. It’s for a restaurant.”
“You’re cleaning dishes?”
“No, not dishes. The owner wants to shut down his dining area for good. He lost a
pair of waiters last month, and he’s sick of it. So he put up this ad, says he needs
couriers to deliver food to customers around this and a few other towns.”
“Nice racket. All the money, none of the risk.”
89
“Can’t blame him. But yeah, I saw he was running it purely by phone-in, and I saw
an opening. How many people have proper, working mobile coverage these days?
Right? Not many. But how many people can still squeak out a data connection to their
laptops?”
“Clever,” Eva said, her face bright with admiration. She started fidgeting as the
apple was bitten down to the core.
“I talked him into letting me build him a website, complete with online ordering.
Nothing too fancy, but it saves him having to hire a full-time receptionist.”
“Pretty smart there, science boy!”
Rhodri finished his apple, tossed the core from a distance into the garbage can. His
eye were twinkling.
“Eight hundred euros, and I’ve got two weeks to work.”
“Eight hundred! Just think of all the—”
“Hold on, Eva,” he said, sitting next to her, taking her hands in his. “It’s a lot right
now, but I don’t want to go through another year of starving like we have. I don’t want
an apple to be the highlight of my month. Hell, my year. We’ve got to be careful with
this money.”
Eva nodded, avoiding his stare. She shrugged.
“I should probably get a job too, then. Help out more.”
“You could be a courier for the restaurant! Just think! Running around town,
delivering cold food to angry customers! Who needs a car when you’ve got spunk!”
She shoved him playfully.
“You’re such a bastard,” she grumbled. “Actually, I was thinking I could find some
paint and see about selling some more work downtown. I sold one this morning,
straight out of my sketchbook, totally by chance. This middle-aged guy from out of
town, just wouldn’t take no for an answer.”
“Congrats! Which one?”
“The one of Maselle by the river,” Eva beamed.
“Ah, yeah, I could see that one being popular. She had that seductive look about
her.”
Eva frowned at him.
90
“What seductive look?”
“Oh come on, you drew it. It was her whole ‘come hither’ thing.”
Eva pushed him over by his face, crossed her arms in mock anger. He laughed.
“All I’m saying is that when you’re living in a world like this, sometimes you want
a little bit of the world the way it was,” he said. “These days, how many times are you
going to be able to hook up with a sultry college girl with a body like that?”
“Digging yourself deeper,” Eva warned.
“I think hope sells, is what I mean.”
“Or sex,” said Eva.
“The hope of sex, then. Either way, it’s a powerful thing. You should embrace it.
Sell more work, spread a little joy, even if it is by proxy. Give the people what they
want.”
Eva leaned over him, her nose touching his. Her hair made a bridge between them.
His breath was sweet and warm, his eyes dancing across her face.
“People should give me what I want first,” she breathed.
“What do you want?” he asked, softly.
“You know damn well,” she said, and they kissed, long and slow, in front of the
open window, the pale blue sky filled with the sounds of passing ambulances.
91
17
PRAHA 5 POLICE STATION, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
“Eva! Eva, wake up!”
Her vision was blurry, and she coughed violently as if she’d nearly drowned.
Blinking, she forced her eyes to focus, could barely make out the shape of a face above
her, the green glow from the computer lighting his haggard appearance. She gasped,
squeezed her eyes shut, tried to shake herself back awake.
“Pyotr…?” she wheezed, voice weak.
Pyotr smiled nervously, nodded, brushed her cheek with rough hands. His hair was
cut short, patchy, like he’d done it himself. His eyes were ringed with creases, dark
circles, tiny scars and the wear and tear of a living hell. They were still brilliantly blue,
but the rest of him made the colour feel tired, not vibrant anymore. He wasn’t the wiry
kid she’d known at school. He was lean and muscular, tougher.
“I’m sorry, Eva,” he whispered. “I didn’t know it was you. Are you okay? Can you
breathe?”
“You… you choked me…”
“I’m so sorry, I didn’t know. You look a lot different. I thought you were one of
them. You might’ve found me.”
“Where are we?”
“The police station,” he said, checking over his shoulder nervously. “We’ve got to
get moving. Can you walk?”
Eva got to her knees, her legs wobbling beneath her. She put a hand on the wall,
and yelped at a pain in her wrist. She held it close, tight, felt it was swelling slightly.
92
“You hit it when you were fighting me,” Pyotr said, voice wavering with remorse.
“Can you bear it for now?”
Eva nodded, cradled the arm and got to her feet. Pyotr stood next to her, supported
her with a well-toned arm, craning his neck to see out into the hallway.
“It’s good timing, you stopping by,” he said softly. “Guess I’ll have some company
for Christmas after all.”
Mention of the holidays dragged Eva back to reality, and she backed up suddenly,
face blanching.
“Oh my god, Pyotr!” she gasped. “we have to get out of here! There’s a virus… an
outbreak hitting here December first!”
“Shh! Eva, quiet or they’ll hear us!”
Eva lowered her voice, but her eyes were wide with fear.
“We can’t stay here. We need to get out before it starts. Please, you have to help
me!”
“I will, but—”
“— we have to find my mother and escape before—”
Pyotr put a hand over her mouth, kept her quiet while he checked down the hall.
“I will. I promise. But for right now: shut up and move fast, or we’ll be rotting in
jail when the city explodes. Got it? Now move!”
* * *
The windows were broken, shards strewn all over the weather-worn carpet. It
smelled of smoke in the third floor bedroom, though it was uniquely untouched by the
fire that had gutted the rest of the building. The floor creaked when Eva stepped on it,
so she walked gingerly, followed Pyotr precisely.
“We don’t have time, Pyotr,” she called. “We need to start looking for my mother
and finding food to travel and—”
“First things first,” he interrupted, reaching a solid portion of the room and
kneeling down on a mattress, pressed up against the wall. “We need to check your arm
and get you fixed up. The way things are out there, you wouldn’t last long like that.”
93
Eva didn’t respond, so he grabbed her arm and rolled up her sleeve. She bit back a
yelp at the pain. Her wrist was purpling and noticeably swollen. He sighed.
“Looks nasty. Sorry about that.”
She shrugged, then cried out loudly as he tried bending her hand up and down. He
let her go, started rummaging through his pockets, pulling out food packets, half a
dozen marbles, a pair of pliers, and a bundle of beige elastic wrap.
“You come prepared,” Eva smiled.
“This isn’t what I usually use it for. But I think it’ll do…”
He reached out to the nearby window ledge and grabbed a handful of snow, and
carefully put it on her arm. She was already so cold it barely registered, but as it melted
it made her skin tingle, like tiny fiery pinpricks.
Eva looked up at him as he applied the second round of snow, shook her head.
“You look so different, Pyotr. Your hair is… it used to be beautiful.”
He shrugged, cocked his head.
“Don’t rub it in. It was getting too hard to manage without a bath. Took me days to
get up the nerve to do it all in. With the edge of a tin can, no less.”
“It shows,” Eva smiled. “The beard is new, too. You were always the clean one. It’s
just kind of strange to see you like this.”
“You look awfully new yourself,” he said. “But long hair suits you, I think.”
“Thanks,” she said. “I think it’s awful.”
“Goes with the wrist.”
“Yeah,” she said, and caught some of the water dripping off her arm with the palm
of her hand.
Pyotr put another handful of snow on her, wiped his hands on his jacket, and
picked up the food packet he’d removed earlier.
“You keep that up until the ledge is clear, and I’ll get us some dinner. A quick
dinner. Yes?”
Eva nodded hesitantly. Pyotr tried to rip open the package, but it wouldn’t give.
“Stupid things never open right…” he grumbled.
“It’s so good to see you,” Eva said softly. “It’s good to know someone here.”
“Someone alive from the old days.”
94
“Yeah,” was all she said.
Pyotr did a mock roar and pulled furiously at the package, but it still wouldn’t
budge. He stomped an angry foot on the ground and leaned into it with all his strength,
the wrapper foiling his every move. Eva laughed, shook her head, and watched him a
moment.
“You know, I used to have the biggest crush on you in first year,” she said.
This caught Pyotr off guard, and just at that moment, the package burst open and
half the ration skidded across the floor, right to Eva’s feet. Pyotr stood there, stunned.
Then upset, then shocked. He looked at the other half in his hand, sighed.
“That was sudden,” he said, then handed her the safe half of the ration. “Here you
go. Eat.”
Eva took the food with her good hand, and gave a weak smile, which dissolved as
Pyotr snatched the other part from the ground, dusted the dirt off its bottom. Eva
reached out to him.
“Don’t.” she said seriously. “It’s not worth the risk.”
His blue eyes caught hers, he shrugged slightly.
“I’ll live,” he replied, but she grabbed his arm with her swollen hand, wincing.
“Don’t be stupid. You can’t know that. You can’t risk that.”
Their eyes stayed locked, and Pyotr dropped the food on the ground and flicked it
away, under a chest of drawers. Eva handed him her own ration, and he snapped it in
half for her, giving her a part back.
“Be careful with it this time,” she warned.
He smiled at her. She bit into the wafer, winced at the taste, how it sucked the
moisture out of her mouth.
“Yum,” she sighed. “Stale strawberries.”
Pyotr laughed a big booming laugh.
“Stale strawberries would be a step up. This is old cardboard sprinkled with
strawberry extract. I’d throw up, if I had anything in my stomach.”
Eva smiled, then almost gagged on her second mouthful.
95
“What are you doing here anyway?” Pyotr asked, swallowing the rest of his share.
“Last I heard, you were going to stick it out in Paris. Where’s Rhodri? You two are still
together, right?”
Eva clenched a fist round the wafer, but it refused to crumble.
“No,” she said, not looking up. “Not right now, no.”
“But you will be again? There’s hope for you two, right?”
She said nothing, closed her eyes.
“Maselle and I took some time off, after I left school,” he said, trying to fill the gap.
“Thought we were done, but you know, after a few months, it worked out okay.”
Eva smiled, flicked a glance up at Pyotr, whose face had changed from hopeful to
distant somehow. He was staring at the ceiling. Then he jerked out of it, took the elastic
wrap and started bundling up her arm in slow, careful movements. She did her best
not to show how much it hurt.
“You two were great together,” Eva said. “I don’t think I ever saw you apart, the
whole time I was in Paris. Rhodri and I used to joke that we’d have to be surgically
joined at the hip to even come close to your level of commitment.”
“Heh,” said Pyotr absent-mindedly. “Probably right.”
“How is Maselle?” Eva asked, and Pyotr shifted his stare to the window.
“She died a few months ago,” he said, with a dead expression. “Nuremberg
syndrome. Out of nowhere.”
Eva blinked, looked down at the wafer in her hands. At Pyotr’s hands. At his sad
expression.
“Pyotr… Nuremberg is… that’s highly contagious… and airborne…”
He didn’t face her, just stared at his hands.
“Yeah,” he said. “they warned me about that when they put me in quarantine.”
96
18
NA CELNÉ 1391/11, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Eva gasped, moved away from Pyotr urgently. She had no mask, no protection…
she covered her mouth with the sleeve of her sweater, taking shallow breaths. Slow,
shallow breaths. The elastic started unravelling onto the floor.
Pyotr didn’t even notice her.
“I spent six weeks in quarantine,” he said. “Couldn’t see another living person for
six weeks. They shoved food in under the door, and all I had to do was knock twice a
day to tell them I was still alive. Lived in my own shit. They torch each cell after you
die, so why bother cleaning?
“After five weeks, I’m sure I’m near death. I’m losing my mind, I’ve lost so much
weight. I’m on the verge of a massive breakdown. This doctor in a full biohazard suit
comes in, takes some blood, and tells me… he tells me Maselle died a week earlier. I
can’t see her. I can’t see her at all. She’s already being carted off to be incinerated, and
all I get from her is the ring I got her when we… we got engaged.”
Eva didn’t move her arm, but tears were in her eyes, and she blinked them back.
“A week later the doctor comes back, tells me they’ve re-run my blood, and I’m
clear for Nuremberg. It was a lab error the first time. I was fine. I could have… I could
have been with her at the end, but they made a mistake. So she died alone, starving,
drowning in her own shit. It’s just wrong, Eva. It’s so wrong.”
Eva carefully, gently, lowered her sleeve from her face, reached out towards Pyotr.
He was still staring out the window, watching something that wasn’t there. They sat in
silence, the snow making no sound as it drifted onto the window ledge.
Eva offered the last of the wafer to Pyotr.
97
“Are… are you hungry?” she asked quietly.
Pyotr looked at the wafer, his eyes narrow, then carefully plucked it from her hand,
perched it in his fingers, but didn’t move to eat it.
“What were you doing at the police station? Was it business or pleasure?”
She laughed at this.
“Very much business,” she said, leaning back on the mattress, the dampness
making her shiver. “They think I’m some master virus-maker.”
“You?” he laughed. “Our little Eva? You’re joking, right?”
“Wish you’d tell them that,” she said, shaking her head. “they don’t believe me.”
Pyotr patted her knee, held his hand there a bit longer than necessary.
“They don’t believe anyone,” he said.
“I’ve noticed. But listen… we need to get moving… I have no idea where my mother
is, and there isn’t much time before the virus hits, whatever it is.”
“You really trust cops? About this virus theory of theirs?”
Eva’s eyes darted to the ground.
“I do. I wish I didn’t, but I do.”
He nodded, started on her wrist again, wrapping faster this time. She gritted her
teeth.
“Sit tight. I’m not a doctor or anything, but I’ll make you useful again.”
Eva looked outside, the snow falling, then back to Pyotr.
“Thanks for this. I’d be lost here without a friend.”
A gust of wind outside blew drops of water into the room. Pyotr wiped it off his
face.
“Don’t worry about it. Thank you for warning me about the impending doom and
all.”
Eva laughed.
“Sorry about the accommodations, by the way,” he said, frowning. “You
interrupted my apartment hunting. The police keep the best list of vacant buildings in
town, so I like to plan a little raid every so often to find some new digs.”
“Why do you live like this anyway?” she asked.
98
“My folks died two years ago. Battinger’s D. I wasn’t there, but y’know… when the
bank account stops getting filled, you kinda figure.”
“God, I’m so sorry, Pyotr.”
“It’s okay,” he said, but his expression said otherwise. “Part of the package, right?
Anyway… I made it this far home, ran out of money just east of Prague and had to turn
back. Been living the life of adventure ever since.”
“For how long?”
“Almost a year and a half, I guess. Can’t afford a watch battery,” he said, smiling
again, showing her his stopped watch. Eva frowned at it, then pulled the wad of papers
and cards out of her pocket, fished through them until she found a hundred-euro note.
She handed it over to him.
“Here you go,” she said. “Get yourself hooked up. It’s on me.”
He took the money, waved it a bit, smirking.
“Now all I’ve got to do is find someplace that sells batteries, that’s still open for
business. And accepts cash. Yay!”
“So it’s really that bad here? They were still taking paper money in Stuttgart when
I left a few days ago. What’re you supposed to do then? How does anyone survive?”
“They don’t, mostly,” said Pyotr seriously. “But when you need food, there’s a
government stockroom across the Charles that’s open most days. A lot of the packages
are ripped open or otherwise trashed, but it’s better than nothing. But for the rest…
yeah, it’s not too good in Prague. Pockets of civilization next door to splashes of
apocalypse. It’s surreal sometimes. The only fully-functioning facility left in town is
the Motol, and even that’s not what it used to be.”
“You got sick?”
“Broke my arm. They set it in the parking lot and sent me home without pain meds,
just in case. No x-rays, no follow-up. Too dangerous to go inside. Kind of like how I’m
treating you, but I think they had medical degrees.”
“Jesus, that’s brutal,” Eva whispered, glanced outside and noticed the snow was
falling harder now. Pyotr put the final touches on the bandage and turned her arm
around back and forth.
“How’s it feel?” he asked.
99
“Like utter crap, but well contained.”
“That’s what I’m going for!” he smiled, then his expression changed. Worry. “Eva,
is this your passport?”
“Yeah, why?”
Pyotr got to his feet with a start, looked around himself, then ran to the window,
crunching glass as he went, leaned out. Eva stood up too, the room colder without the
blanket, and watched as Pyotr threw the passport into the empty fireplace, kicked
ashes onto it.
“What’s going on?” Eva asked as Pyotr started picking up his things, shoving stuff
into his pockets.
“You’re 17-5, right?” he asked, and she flinched.
“Yes. I mean, they keep saying—”
“It means tag and trace,” he said seriously, looking out the door to the landing. It
had taken some work to make it up the fire-ravaged steps on the way here. Rushing
down was not an option. “They put a chip in your passport so they can find you if they
lose you.”
Eva looked back at the fireplace, at the ashes kicked around, then back at Pyotr,
who suddenly shifted back into the room. A flashlight beam shining up from the floors
below.
“Ms Kolikov!” came a voice, calm and determined. “we’re not done our chat yet!”
“Sobotka,” growled Pyotr, backing up till window glass broke under his feet. He
turned round, looked out the window. Eva was by his side in an instant, saw the fire
escape, checked his expression.
“We’ve got to get out of here,” she said, swinging one leg over the window ledge
and planting a foot on the rusted metal outside. She grabbed hold of the railing with
her good hand and pulled herself out. The metal was slippery from the snow, and
before she could stop it, she slipped sideways, landed on the window sill on her right
shoulder, the fragments of glass cutting into her skin, and she called out in pain.
Pyotr put his hand over her mouth before she could do much damage, a panicked
look in his eyes. He climbed out, too, helped Eva to her feet, and without a word,
nudged her down the stairs.
100
After one storey, Eva got her footing, and picked up speed. She skidded round the
last bend, grabbed hold of the railing, but with her bandaged hand, and the pain was
so terrible she shrieked and let go. She slipped onto her back and fell off the edge of
the gate, only catching hold of the metal at the last second, holding on so tight it felt
like her fingertips had fused into her palm.
Pyotr was on his chest, wrapping his strong hands around her forearm, his teeth
gritting audibly.
“Hold on,” he whispered through the strain, trying to pull her back up, the sidewalk
cold and icy below them.
“Ms Kolikov and friend!” shouted Sobotka from the window above. “Bonus for
me!”
Eva heard the sound of heavy feet on metal. Pyotr wasn’t making any progress
getting her back up… their eyes met quickly, urgently, and for a second neither said a
thing. Then Pyotr knew what she was going to do, and he shook his head as much as
he could manage.
“You can’t,” he grunted.
“I can’t go back,” she said, and pulled herself free.
101
19
NA CELNÉ 1391/11, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Eva’s heel hit the ground, and for a moment she thought she had dropped two
storeys unscathed.
But then her weight shifted, her foot slipped on slick ice, and before she could react,
her head hit the pavement. Pain shot pink and bright blue streaks across her vision;
she blinked rapidly to regain her sight. She gasped at the pain, closed her eyes again
and held them shut so tight it felt like her brains might collapse from the pressure.
When she opened them again, she was floating, her arm wrapped over Pyotr’s
shoulders, her feet grazing the ground like they were pretending to walk.
Shock set in, and she gripped into Pyotr’s neck and gasped. He pulled her against
a cold wall in the darkness, pushed her back and looked at her with a panicked face.
“Don’t make a sound,” he whispered so quietly she almost didn’t hear. She tried to
calm herself, but her head was swimming and something about it didn’t seem real to
her, and she shuddered, her head aching so intensely she had trouble seeing past it.
To her right, a street. She was in an alley she didn’t recognize, off a wide street
without tire marks on it. Snow was melting from the buildings above, dripping down
next to her, on her, and the tap, tap, tap of drops hitting puddles was mesmerizing. She
almost didn’t hear the footsteps in the street, cautious and careful.
Pyotr put a hand down onto her stomach, pushed her back, and she fought against
her delirium, kept herself still.
She saw the figure through the pain: Sobotka, silhouetted by streetlights, standing
at the edge of the alley, peering in. She checked over her shoulder, then back towards
102
them. Eva didn’t even breathe, heard her heartbeat in her ears, the sound of her head
rubbing against brick.
Sobotka pointed a light into the alley… too far left, too far right, then she settled on
a spot just ahead of them, so close the beam was blinding…
Water tapped, and Eva could hear Pyotr’s slow breathing beside her, and his hand
was pressing so strong into her stomach it hurt. The light wavered slightly, darted
quickly toward them, and then swung back, away, and Sobotka was gone.
Neither of them moved for a minute or more, and Eva put her hand on Pyotr’s,
took hold and tried to move it so she could breathe again. The pain came flooding back
to her head in the absence of fear, and she nearly collapsed. She looked to Pyotr, who
was still watching the street nervously. He reluctantly pulled his gaze away, saw her,
smiled.
“Are you okay?” he asked.
Eva nodded, willing a calm facade.
“Thank you,” she said quietly. “you saved me.”
They moved deeper into the alley, took a turn to the right, then a few turns more
that Eva only noticed in the corners of her mind; the pain kept coming in waves up her
neck and into her eyes.
They paused in a small deserted courtyard, a bench bolted to giant slabs of
concrete. Empty, broken, wooden crates strewn everywhere. Eva smiled weakly at it,
the refuge, and then promptly fell to her knees and vomited all over the slushy snow.
Pyotr ran to her side, rubbing her back and carefully leading her to the bench,
helping her down. She felt another wave coming on, but swallowed, tried to see past
the pain in her head.
“Concussion…” she wheezed, spitting bile into the snow.
Pyotr ran a hand across her cheek, looked nervous.
“You’re pale,” he said, uncertain, probing for answers beyond his reach. She
squeezed her eyes shut and tried holding her breath.
“It’s going… to get… worse…” she gasped, and he gripped her hands tighter.
103
“Wait a second,” he said, rattling urgent fingers through his pockets. Eva doubled
over and tried not to vomit again. She was counting to ten for the third time when he
found them: two large, blue pills, dusted with lint.
“Take these,” he said gently.
She squinted, looked up at him, her vision laced with light and pain.
“W-w-what are they?”
He put the pills in her hand, and she squeezed them tight as another shot of nausea
stunned her.
“It’s called Tezocet, I think. Painkillers. Um, anti-inflammatory something.”
She nodded slightly, the motion causing unbearable pain. With a quick motion, she
shoved the pills into her mouth, swallowed, then pushed the heels of her hands into
her eyes, trying to focus past the agony so she wouldn’t throw up again.
Pyotr was rubbing her back, gentle circles counter-clockwise, over and over… she
felt the pain slide back, and she turned her head to him, opened her eyes, groggy.
“Working,” she said quietly.
He nodded, smiled.
“Where did you get those pills?” Eva asked, her vision not clearing but the pain
almost a shadow of what it was.
Pyotr looked down at the snow, guilty.
“Maselle,” he said simply.
Somehow the cold was less frightening than it had been before, and Eva almost
thought the sound of the wind on the rooftops above sounded muffled. Somehow off.
She took a deep breath and her vision rippled with light.
“Painkillers working,” she slurred. “and strong…”
She fell into his arms, and he held her tight.
“Listen, Eva,” he said softly. “I know you and Rhodri had your differences, but…”
Eva’s vision was so blurry suddenly she couldn’t see her own legs beneath her, and
the fuzzy shapes around her were shifting and turning, and she felt so dizzy and sleepy
it was hard to listen ...
“Sometimes you don’t appreciate what you had till it’s too late,” she heard Pyotr
say, but she didn’t really know what it meant anymore.
104
“I need to find my mama,” she sighed, and he caught her head as it fell backwards.
“Eva? Eva, can you hear me?”
Eva felt her eyes roll back in her head, and fell as if she were sinking into a snowy
field, with Pyotr somewhere out in the sky, calling her back to him.
105
20
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The cough was ragged, so grating it was surprising no blood came out with the
mucus. Anouma held the plastic bowl close to his mouth and leaned him forward so it
was all out. He gasped for air and fell back, lying on the sweaty mattress he called his
home. His arms moved helplessly at his sides, waving back and forth as if he were
drowning.
The pit nurse checked her clipboard, glanced at the man’s tag number.
“So he had no ID on him?” she asked, checking through papers quickly.
“None,” said Anouma softly. “He was dumped outside in a hospital gown.”
“Cast-offs from Františku Hospital again?”
“It could be. I have heard they are closing soon.”
The nurse sighed, flipped a few more pages, looked at the patient.
“So what’s his diagnosis? We need to find a place to move him. He’s end-stage, isn’t
he?”
Anouma urgently motioned for the nurse to follow her away from the bed, down a
short distance to a spot where most of the patients were still asleep.
“Be careful what you say,” she whispered angrily. “He can hear you.”
“But he—”
“He is fully conscious. He knows what is happening to him, but he cannot control
his body enough to tell us. His motor control is gone, his lungs are failing, and he is
living with endless pain we cannot treat. Do not add to his misery.”
The nurse looked sufficiently chastised, met Anouma’s eyes.
106
“Fine. I’m sorry,” she grumbled. “But what I want to know is if he’s going to die
soon, we’ll leave him here. Otherwise, he’s going upstairs.”
Anouma sighed, looked out over the floor.
“He will survive indefinitely. It is how it works.”
“Upstairs, then,” said the nurse, and started to leave, before Anouma caught her
arm. She pulled a nearby IV bag towards her, twisted it. The side of the bag was wet,
and a tiny drop fell off the edge when it moved. The nurse looked closer, too, mouth
hanging open.
“How did this happen? Are these being re-used?” Anouma asked squinting at it.
“Can’t be. Those are fresh from upstairs. Must be a defect.”
Anouma let it go, frowned down the row of beds, their own bags dangling above
patients like bulbous flowers in a field of white.
“Double-check the supply room. We will lose a great deal of volume if there are
others like this.”
The nurse gave Anouma a withering look that went unnoticed.
“Yes, doctor,” she glowered, then walked back to her muted patient, clipboard in
hand. She kicked the brakes on the bed and began navigating it out of the room,
clanging against other patients as she went.
Anouma rubbed her eyes with weary hands, slow and agonizing.
“Long day, doctor?” asked a voice from behind her. She turned, saw an old man
laying in bed, his face covered with boils so big he almost didn’t look human anymore.
Still, somewhere in the mass of distorted flesh were brown eyes, dancing.
“Every day is a long day,” Anouma said to him, picking up his chart and glancing
over it. “How are you feeling today?”
“As well as I should, I think.”
She checked his meds, eyed him cautiously.
“You are not depressed? Fatigued? Thoughts of suicide?”
The man laughed — or at least, laughed as much as he could without being able to
move his face to smile.
“Because I won’t be on the cover of a fashion magazine? No, I’ll live.”
Anouma laughed, clipped the chart back to his bed.
107
“Perhaps not a fashion magazine, but you should qualify for a medical journal
write-up soon. It is widely assumed that Lumberger’s causes depression as one of its
symptoms. Apparently that is not the case.”
“No, they’re all just sad they look like burnt mozzarella,” he replied. “Me, I’m used
to being called ugly. I’ve been married for fifty years.”
Anouma smiled, patted him on a clear shoulder, and he patted her gloved hand
back. Then she saw it… another drop falling off the edge of his IV bag. She squeezed it
gently, and saw a tiny trickle from the side of the bag, running saline down onto her
glove.
“Odd,” she whispered. “Another one…”
The patient tried to turn his head to see what she was looking at, but was prevented
by his ailment.
“What’s what? What’s wrong?”
Anouma let go of the bag, shook her head.
“Nothing. We have to get you another bag. Some seem to be leaking for some
reason. I will fetch a new one now, I think. Just wait a moment while I—”
“Help!” came a shout from the far end of the room, and two paramedics in heavy
masks burst in the doors dragging a wretchedly battered woman in their arms, her
chest all bloodied and her head hanging limp, bouncing lifelessly as they pulled her
onto a stretcher. Anouma made a dash for them, saw Dr Bastien hang up a chart and
start running too.
“What happened?” Anouma asked, swapping gloves and swinging her stethoscope
around, checking vitals.
“White female, mid-twenties, looks like a knife attack. Three lacerations to the
abdomen, one to the neck.”
They lifted some gauze off her neck and blood sprayed out, making them both
flinch.
“Hold it steady,” she ordered.
“But—”
“If you are scared of blood, you are in the wrong job! Vitals?”
108
The paramedics scrambled to answer. Anouma ignored them, checked the wounds,
probing with gentle fingers.
“Very deep. Liver, maybe. Vitals! Now!”
“We couldn’t check,” said one of the paramedics, backing up again at the sight of
blood. Anouma glared at him.
“Bag him or get out,” she said coldly.
“How many?” Dr Bastien asked, arriving at her side, pulling on fresh gloves.
“Three at the chest, one at the neck.”
“Blood pressure?”
“We do not know yet,” she said, glaring at the paramedics.
Dr Bastien snuffed, knocked the brakes off the stretcher and wheeled the patient
over to the makeshift trauma area. Anouma kicked a pedal up and down near the bed,
priming the generator. A short cough later, the lights came on, beaming bright white
onto the blood.
One of the paramedics had already disappeared.
“Do a blood test on her, for god’s sake,” Anouma hissed to the other. He nodded,
pushed a portable testing unit against the woman’s arm and backed away as Dr Bastien
pushed his way in, feeling the chest wounds.
“Decreased lung function on the left,” he said to Anouma, squinting as he listened,
looked. Blood bubbled up and out of the cuts. The woman’s eyes suddenly shot open
and the shock of what was happening to her made her convulse violently. She jerked
upwards, trying to escape, gasped and coughed, spitting blood across herself and onto
the doctors.
“Blood pressure dropping,” Anouma called out, watching the monitor she’d
hooked up herself. Dr Bastien grabbed a scalpel off a tray, began work on the highest
of the wounds. Anouma grabbed the suction tube and was about to hand it over when
she noticed it was already bloody. She threw it to the ground.
“Suction contaminated,” she growled. “I will find another.”
“I’m losing her pulse,” Bastien said as the monitors wailed. “Skip the suction. We
need to stop the bleeding!”
109
Anouma nodded, passed him a new package of scalpels and gauze, and then swung
back for a pack of clamps. The cart with supplies was too far away… she reached for it,
but the monitors whined loudly, warning the patient was crashing.
“Twenty cc’s of Entophin!” Bastien called, starting compressions. Anouma
snatched a vial off the cart, punched a syringe into the needle dispenser and drew
serum. She aimed for a bulging vein on the patient’s arm.
The woman convulsed again, and Anouma’s hand was hit so suddenly the needle
missed its target and slid across the back of her right glove, ripping latex and hitting
her skin.
The paramedic gasped, but Anouma didn’t flinch, tried again and pushed the meds.
The woman’s heart rate started coming back up, and the monitor calmed, but the blood
was still pouring from her wounds.
“I need suction,” Bastien called, already cutting and probing without the aid of the
clamps Anouma had missed. She pulled off her gloves, opened a drawer with her
fingertips, removed a packaged suction head and swapped out the old one. She handed
it over to Bastien, who took it without looking.
The back of her hand was bleeding slightly, but she ignored it, threw on a new set
of gloves and re-joined the crisis. The paramedic eyed her anxiously.
“You will need a packer,” she said, checking the stats. She started to go back to the
cupboard, but Bastien caught her hand, letting the suction drop out and away, and
twisted it so he could see the blood beneath her glove.
“When did this happen?” he said gravely.
“Just now,” she offered, tried to pull away.
“Fanta,” he said, holding tight. “when?”
She met his eyes, cold and unforgiving.
“Yes, I came in contact,” she admitted.
Bastien pushed down on the wound he was working on to stop the bleeding, waved
a bloodied hand out to the paramedic.
“Give me the test results!” he shouted. The paramedic was startled, jumped up and
almost tossed the device towards Bastien, who caught it deftly and quickly paged
through screens.
110
“TB-G 14,” he sighed, threw the device at the side of the bed, then looked at
Anouma. “Go clean that, and stay away from the patient, Fanta.”
Anouma shook her head, grabbed the suction, started back. Bastien caught her
wrist, squeezed.
“Dr Anouma, leave the room.”
“You need me.”
“Find Dr Laroche!” Bastien barked at the paramedic. “Now!”
Anouma tried to break free, but she wasn’t nearly as strong as the old man. His
eyes were cold and menacing.
“It is a tiny scratch,” she tried. “you need me now.”
“TB-G 14 could kill you!” he boomed. “You don’t have the antibodies. Someone else
will take your place. That’s final. Now back away so I can save this patient!”
The ferocity of it make her flinch, and she reluctantly stepped back, held her hand
gingerly, watched him work on his own.
“TB-G is not the same as Tuberculosis,” she said quietly. “I am in virtually no
danger of contracting it from her.”
“‘Virtually’ is not ‘absolutely’, Fanta. There’s a very large gulf between them. One
I’ve lost many colleagues to.”
She didn’t want to leave, hesitated, but saw he wouldn’t hear any more objections.
She nodded. Slightly. Turned halfway.
“I will go clean this out. And… find Dr Laroche.”
He didn’t reply, just kept working.
She stormed into the side room and hit the water on harder than she needed to.
She started scrubbing disinfectant onto her hands, her teeth clenched shut and her
eyes not watching what she was doing. She heard the sound of the monitors coding
again, and though Dr Laroche ran past her as she stood there, by the sounds and shouts
and panic in the air, she knew it was too late.
She gripped the edge of the sink, her head bowed, and refused to cry.
111
21
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
It was close to eleven o’clock before the Healer escaped the old city limits. Behind
him, Prague was a faint glow, patches of lights coming from fireplaces and not
electricity, dark spots where civilization had retreated. Like a medieval town again.
He passed a man with a bucket, trying to steal some water from a public drinking
fountain; all that came out was dark sewage. The man took it anyway. Nearby, a
manhole bubbled up, pushed by foam and dirt as the old underground infrastructure
crumbled. A pair of bodies lay in a ditch, decomposing in the frigid air. They were being
submerged by the sewage leak, would stay frozen until spring. It was a long time away.
An armoured car driven by two men in hazmat suits rumbled down the country
road. On the side of the truck was a picture of a young woman smiling, a crystal glass
in her hand, the vibrant logo of her company teasing the grey, decrepit world she
passed by.
The proud stadium, once a great and majestic thing, had been turned into a sorting
area for the dead. A large billboard along the road had advertised a EuroCup match
there from years before, the larger-than-life players faded and blue. There were no
games there now, only massive furnaces turning the sky red with heat.
Large trucks covered in snow and mud paced through, in endless shifts, dropping
off their grim cargo. The colour-coded body bags were deposited in heaps at the
entrances, and workers moved with uneasy speed to get them cleared away, to the
incinerators, as the cold set in. In the centre of the stadium, four pillars of smoke
reached into the sky and faded into the clouds. Ash covered the snow on the ground.
112
Across the way in a soccer pitch, a large group had gathered, all dressed in black,
watching the stadium’s fires. Some were praying, others weeping, and the rest just
staring in uncertain disbelief. The Healer saw one cough openly, no masks in sight. He
looked away in disgust.
He found a small patch of unused land at the edge of town, near a brook, and set
up his tent. He lay there in the darkness, the mask pressing against his skin and the
cold seeping past his armour. He listened to the sound of his breathing.
The radio crackled to life.
“Home to Green Four,” came the familiar voice. He sat up, flipped up the antenna,
stared up into the sky.
“Green Four here. Go ahead.”
“You are outside Prague city limits,” Home said. “Please advise on timetable.”
He pushed open the door to his tent, looked at the pitch black sky.
“I have a credible lead. Will investigate tomorrow.”
Static.
“Understood, Green Four. However…” the voice trailed off, tentative. “Your
schedule may not allow for delay.”
The Healer looked at the ground, let the tent close again.
“Approaching a target in the dark risks unnecessary violent confrontations,” he
said, devoid of emotion. “It is best to make contact in the morning, in my experience.”
“Such tactics are not standard practices,” came the answer. It was meant to be the
final word.
“Standard practices,” the Healer said coldly, “do not reflect the reality of the
mission.”
There was a long silence. The wind blew the tent and it angled slightly, fluttering.
“Green Four, your experience is noted. You are the last of the first wave. There had
been talk of relieving you as well, to give you the hero’s welcome you deserve. But you,
above all others, were able to bring satisfactory results for us.”
The Healer put his head in his hands, said nothing.
“However, your rate of progress has slowed in recent months. We are re-evaluating
our earlier decision.”
113
Static again. The Healer didn’t move. The wind gusted again, twigs hitting the tent
and flying away.
“How long do I have?” the Healer asked.
Static.
“You must leave Prague within forty-eight hours. One way or another.”
The Healer said nothing for some time.
“Good luck, Green Four. We will monitor your progress carefully.”
He turned down the antenna once more, and sat there in the dark, unmoving.
* * *
In his dream, he felt the warmth of a summer’s day in the fields of Tacheng. The
grass was brushing against his palms as he ran toward the piercing blue sky, chasing
his brother, and he felt lightness in his chest in a way he had forgotten long ago.
And then the warmth grew stronger and redder until it was a sudden fire, lashing
at his face, and he was aware he was wearing his mask, and he heard the sound of his
voice (though he wasn’t speaking) in his native tongue, calling for rear guards, to hold
the line. Hold the line.
And he saw the eyes of a girl in the eastern provinces, not angry, not sad, just
bewildered as the smoke choked her and her black hair burned so brightly.
He never heard her scream, not this time, but he was so overcome with his own
voice calling out orders that he woke with a start, gasping, his suit whining in his ears,
warning him to pace himself, to calm himself, to stay on target.
* * *
Carey sat on a wire-mesh chair beneath the giant logo for Zemus Pharmaceuticals,
a blue glow shining from behind its spotless silvery lettering. He paged through the
magazine one more time, not pausing at the articles or photos; just going through the
motions, his eyes on the clock above the receptionist’s desk.
114
He put the magazine aside, straightened out his trousers, and got up. Once he was
at standing height, the receptionist gave him an evil stare, a carrot stick hanging out of
her mouth, pinched between manicured fingers.
Carey leaned on the edge of her desk, smiled as best he could.
“I don’t suppose you have any further information about Mr Daniels, do you?” he
asked.
The receptionist chewed her carrot at him.
“Mr Daniels is not in the office at the moment,” she replied. “If you’d like to leave
a message, I can be sure he calls you as soon as he gets in.”
Carey sighed, played with a set of business cards on the counter, which were
promptly taken away from him.
“Actually, I did that yesterday. All day yesterday, in fact, and he never did call
back.”
“He’s a very busy man, Mr Daniels is.”
“I appreciate that, but I’m here on government business.”
She rolled her eyes, cracked off another piece of carrot, chewed noisily.
“Everyone calling Mr Daniels is on government business,” she sighed. “But if you
want to leave another message, I can be sure he—”
“Okay, listen, I don’t believe you anymore. He’s in his office right now, isn’t he? I
just can’t believe that a vice president at a major pharmaceutical company isn’t in the
office at… at a half past ten on a Tuesday. It’s just beyond belief.”
She said nothing, but made it clear it was because he bored her.
“I demand to be taken to see Mr Daniels immediately!” Carey said, his voice rising.
This got her attention. She scowled at him, waved a menacing carrot.
“Mr Daniels got in a half hour ago,” she said.
“And you’re just telling me this now?”
“He’s gone straight into a board meeting. All-day type of thing. You could come
back tomorrow, or leave a message, which I assure you he will reply to as soon as he
can.”
115
Carey pressed his forehead against the counter, whimpered, then started to laugh
quietly. He propped his head up on one hand, and let out a loud moan, much to the
receptionist’s displeasure.
“Miss, this is not the situation I wanted to be in.”
“No, sir,” she said, inching away from him.
“My boss — he’s the Director of the Containment Office, mind you — he’s very strict
about these kinds of things. Has rules. Follow the rules. Goose-stepping sort of fellow,
if you know what I mean.”
By the way she slowed her chewing, it was clear she did not.
“Now my boss, he told me very clearly: if they give you any lip, any lip at all, I want
you to declare a D-22 right there, on the spot.”
The receptionist blinked twice, refused to betray confusion.
“I said to him: sir, I think that’s counter-productive. A D-22 would just… just… it
would be totally out of proportion to the crime, honestly. And I—”
“Fine, I’ll bite. What’s a D-22?”
Carey sprung to life. He pulled a small handheld out of his pocket, hit a few screens,
turned it to show her briefly.
“Strictly speaking, a D-22 is when I say our scanners have picked up a foreign
substance in the air, and you all have to be quarantined until further notice.”
She stopped chewing altogether.
“See, it’s completely unethical in these circumstances, because first of all, I don’t
actually have a scanner on me most of the time. And they take, literally, an hour to
process the air for a sample. So the suggestion that I’d be able to say for certain that
you were all infected with something like Kiev-7… it’s absurd, really.”
The receptionist swallowed slowly.
“And in the end, it really gets us no closer to whatever we’re after in the first place.
Sure, they’d lock down the whole building, strip every worker naked and spray them
with six batches of disinfectant. And sort you by function and rank, then clothe you in
standard issue government jumpsuits — good God do those chafe, let me tell you —
and send you to Brighton for quarantine.”
“B-B-B-Brighton?”
116
“Oh certainly, for at least twenty-six weeks. By which point they’d have ascertained
that my original reading was probably incorrect, and they’d replace my scanner and
shrug and say ‘Oh well! Better luck next time!’”
The receptionist smiled weakly.
“But as I said to my boss… it won’t really help me have a sit-down with Mr Daniels.”
“Mr Daniels hasn’t been in the office for weeks,” blurted out the girl, blanching
horribly. “Nobody’s seen him for so long. The president is in a tizzy, everyone is after
him. I honestly, truly, don’t know where he is!”
Carey leaned over the counter, close to the receptionist, squinted at her.
“Are you sure about that? No idea at all?”
She darted nervous glances left and right. Leaned closer to him.
“He… he’s been accessing the mainframe here, through a secure connection,” she
whispered.
“Do you know where from?”
“It’s never clear, but one time I saw his address resolving to something to do with
‘Praha’.”
Carey frowned.
“Prague?”
“That’s what I thought, too. But I can’t be sure.”
Carey nodded, stood back from the desk, checking his handheld again.
“Well,” he said loudly, jovially. “No readings here. Must be clean. Thank you!”
He turned to leave, hit the button at the lift, and his phone buzzed in his pocket.
He slid it out, flipped it open, and was greeted with the sound of the Director clearing
his throat.
“Good God, Carey, it’s been a full day. You’re supposed to have told me you took
care of things.”
Carey smiled a fake smile, nodded to the receptionist, who was eyeing him
cautiously.
“Took longer than expected, sir. Ran into a bit of interference, but I pulled the old
D-22 card, and things worked out fine.”
117
“The what? Listen, Carey, there’s no time for prattling around. Have you given him
the message, or not?”
Carey nodded to the receptionist, got into the empty elevator, and the doors closed.
His composure melted instantly.
“No, sir. He’s not here.”
“Then go to his home, blast you. Show some initiative!”
“It’s not that, sir. He’s not in the country. I have reason to suspect he’s in the Czech
Republic at the moment. Although I’d like to get our boys here to check server logs to
be sure if—”
“No time for that, and no politics about it. Listen here, Carey… if anyone but you
or me thinks he’s outside the country, there’ll be hell to pay. Absolute hell.”
“Yes sir.”
“I need you to get on a plane, get to whatever backward shithole he’s stuck in, and
bring him back.”
“S-s-sir, we’re talking about a black zone… there are… there are protocols about
quarantine and such, and I’m not sure—”
The Director cleared his throat.
“You’ve done this before, haven’t you, Will?”
Carey rested his head against the wall of the elevator, closed his eyes.
“Oh, uh, yes sir, but I… well, yes. Yes I have.”
“Good. I’ll requisition the plane. Get back here as fast as you can.”
Carey shook his head slowly, as if trying to jostle a good excuse to the fore. His
hand pressed against his forehead, he whimpered a reply.
“Sir,” he said. “Sir… if… if I find him, there are only two ways this can turn out.
Prison, or… or —”
The Director interrupted him.
“Or exile,” he said, his voice almost angry, but eerily calm.
118
22
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
In the oppressive dark of the night, snow still glowed impossibly as it drifted into
the street by the hospital. Anouma leaned against the wall, her mask hanging loose
around her neck, breathing in the clear cold air.
The scrape on the back of her hand was wrapped in a thick bandage meant for
purging wounds. She absent-mindedly rubbed it, the peach colour stark against her
brown skin.
A woman pushed a baby carriage down the side street, the wheels catching and
spinning in the thickening snow. There was no baby inside: it rattled and clanked as
the random junk and food shook on the uneven ground.
Anouma heard the crunch of snow underfoot behind her, didn’t turn, waited for Dr
Bastien to stop next to her, looking out into the winter.
“I didn’t mean to be harsh,” he said. “I hope you understand.”
She nodded, looked over at him.
“I just wish I could have helped more.”
“I do, too,” he said, his tired eyes meeting hers. “I think we all do. I wish to god
they’d immunized you before you got on that plane. It’s unfair, leaving you with that
handicap. You’ve been so brave, coming here.”
Anouma shrugged, watched the woman with the carriage.
“It is what they would have done for us,” she said.
Bastien snorted, she felt him watching her.
“Not most of them,” he said, angrily. “And that you think that… it’s what makes
you a good doctor, I suppose.”
119
“People are not as callous as you think, Bastien,” she said, meeting his gaze again.
“Not callous, no,” he said. “Myopic. Dangerously myopic.”
“I cannot forget what they did for my people,” she said.
“And you shouldn’t. Those doctors, the scientists and their companies, they saved
the world. Once upon a time. But you can’t forget what they didn’t do.”
Anouma nodded slightly.
“It is not their fault. There are only so many resources they can—”
Bastien coughed loudly, waved her to silence.
“Don’t buy their bullshit so willingly,” he grumbled. “You embarrass yourself.”
“They saved my country when we were on the brink of extinction. They may be only
human, but they are good people.”
“You’ve got your history confused,” he said simply.
Anouma put a hand on his shoulder and he winced, refused to look back. The scars
on his face, around his neck… signs of battles he’d fought with diseases that would have
crushed anyone else where they stood. He was not easily bowed by anything anymore.
“What happened in Russia, that is not your fault,” she ventured. “The odds were
against you. Against all of you. And you did the best you could. But it is different here!
This is not the same situation. You cannot go on carrying the chains they forced on you
back then.”
He looked round at her suddenly, his eyes narrow.
“The chains aren’t gone,” he growled. “they’ll tug them when they’re threatened.”
Anouma tried to object, but he cut her off.
“The only difference between then and now,” he said bitterly, “is that they’ve
become better at wrapping the truth in dangerous hopes.”
“Hope is not dangerous. Hope is how we survive.”
“Hope is how you think you’d survive. But you won’t.” He seemed lost in a flash of
a painful memory, squinted at her. “Hope helps nothing. And in a painful majority of
cases, neither can you. Sometimes it almost seems better to do it like the Healers did
it. Clean it all out, start fresh. The battle here just… it just never ends.”
The wind blew, knocked Anouma’s mask about her neck, and she pushed some hair
from her face. They stood there in the cold as the snow fell.
120
“How is Adjobi?” Bastien asked, his tone back to his normal, battle weary self.
“He is brave. His white count is very low, but he has not worsened.”
“That’s good,” was the reply, empty.
“What is wrong?” she asked. He avoided her eyes.
“Word came in from Paris,” he said. “They say there isn’t sufficient demand yet to
produce another run of vaccines.”
Anouma’s face went blank, she could feel it.
“Did they say…”
He shook his head grimly.
“Twelve months.”
She nodded solemnly.
“At the earliest,” he added, then shook his head. “And I’m not sure I can keep the
health director at bay to the end of the week, let alone a year. He’s demanding all blood
samples be delivered tomorrow, so they can start issuing deportation orders on
December the first.”
Anouma said nothing.
“I’ll cover for you as best I can, Fanta, but I can’t hide you forever. Too many people
know where you and Adjobi came from, and they’ll make the connection.”
“If only they had kept a little of the vaccine. Just two doses, and we would be fine…”
“Fanta,” Bastien said gravely. “nearly two million Africans died from AIDS last year
alone. Two doses doesn’t begin to cover it. It’s an untreated epidemic of dead diseases,
and it makes me sick every time I talk to Geneva.”
Anouma bowed her head, stared at the snow in silence.
“It’s not what they do,” he said flatly. “it’s what they ignore. And they’ll punish you
for their faults, believe me. It’s the proud chains they’ll use to hang us all.”
121
NOVEMBER 29
23
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
In his backpack were the instruments needed for a sustainable incursion into a
foreign land, all carefully wrapped and positioned in layers of tough bullet-proof cloth;
never easily accessible, most of it rarely touched. It weighed as much as a second
person on his back, and despite the metal rails built to alleviate the strain on his spine,
the Healer had built a formidable set of muscles along his shoulders and torso because
of it.
Before the sun rose that morning, he was perched in the darkness of the tent,
carefully sorting and shifting the things he needed to set out.
The outer layer of the pack was the easiest to reach, but it contained mostly armour
plating and bandages, never anything breakable or important. He removed the
topmost covering on his gloves and used the latex layer to grab a pair of lifting tabs on
the pack, slowly and patiently shifted the entire platform over onto a clean space on
the tent floor.
In the next layer was a red plastic device meant for blood analysis. He removed it
from its holding brace and connected it to a small battery wire that peeked through the
middle of his pack. He left it on the ground, its battery indicator slowly animating
upwards.
Another device, this one grey and half-metal, connected to a socket along his left
biceps, and his suit contracted slightly along his arm like a mechanical tourniquet. A
faint beep close to his ear announced the end of the test, and his suit relieved the
pressure gradually, the feeling coming back to his clenched hand. He replaced the
122
device in the pack, exactly as before, and dismissed the results readout on a small
screen below; he did not pause to read. The radio lay silent on the ground beside him;
that was all he needed to know.
The blood analysis device finished charging, and a faint blue light pulsed to life on
its head. The Healer slipped his hand back into its outer glove, unlatched a piece of
armour on his left forearm. He folded it back and peeled open a portal in the suit,
rimmed with bright yellow, clean white rubber beneath.
Sliding his glove off again, he carefully placed his index finger and thumb on two
depressions along the yellow rim, twisted counter-clockwise twice, and then pushed
down. It clicked open, and he pinched his fingers together to remove it, placing it next
to the blood analysis device in his pack. A disinfectant spray doused it immediately on
contact.
The grey device connected seamlessly with the new socket he’d uncovered, and he
rotated it clockwise, a quarter-turn, until he heard it latch. He pushed the blue button
at the head, and a quiet beep played in his ears; he felt a tug and hiss as the device
sucked the air out of the connection, creating a miniature vacuum. A small LCD
readout showed the airlock was confirmed, and a second beep preceded a thirtysecond spray of strong disinfectant. His skin stayed carefully isolated from this
routine, covered by two further layers of protection.
After a moment of calibration, the device connected itself to his static IV and
pumped five millilitres of blood into a small vial, closed the connection and began
processing. He unlatched it, replaced all the covers in a careful repetition of his earlier
routine, and glanced at the device’s small screen. No warnings.
He checked his second pack, the smaller one that carried his food and tools, saw
the edge of a wafer package, beckoning him. He looked away immediately, back at the
task at hand. The sun was rising.
* * *
It was an hour before he made it back to the main road north into Prague, his pace
methodical, yet faster than usual.
123
The neighbourhood he was tracking was made up of low-rise buildings, blankets
hung from open windows. In the early morning light, he heard the sounds of children
waking their parents, almost-quiet clanging dishes, yawns travelling far in the thin
cold air. An old man in a housecoat stood on his front step, smoking a cigarette, his
eyes locked on the Healer, his hands frozen.
The Healer checked the street sign again: Michalská. This was the right place, but
not yet at the right house. He turned his head away from the old man, looked down the
street. A thin coating of snow lay on the ground, and more was falling. He kept moving,
checking back a few steps later. The old man’s eyes narrowed, frozen, his head turned
but his body unmoved. You are not welcome here.
Number 21 was a two-storey apartment complex with a small chimney off to the
right, puffing out smoke in a lazy drizzle. The front door had a large oval window in it,
though the glass was badly cracked, the shiny metal handle dented and warped inward.
There were no lights inside the foyer.
A shift in light to his left caught his eye, and he twitched his head slightly to see.
Three men, just out of bed it seemed, watching him from a distance. The street was
suddenly silent. Children were quiet.
He turned his head straight again, as if to show he would ignore them all. He
listened carefully for the sound of feet in snow. There was silence for a minute. No
sounds, no movement, no hint of intention. The Healer carefully walked up the steps
to the front door, wrapped his fingers round the handle, and opened it.
Still, silence.
He stepped inside, his foot gravelled and rough, grinding into the dirty wood floor,
a piercing noise. The door slowly eased to a close behind him, but he did not turn his
head to look out. They were watching him with gaping mouths.
The door at the end of the hall was shut tight, but in the dark he could clearly see
the hint of shadows right under the door. The peep hole flickered light. Nervous
movements. He stopped to the left of the door, his back to the wall, and listened.
Outside, faces at the base of the steps, watching him through the shattered glass.
No sounds.
124
He reached a hand out, saw the faces outside tense, and knocked on the door three
times. The faces at the door creeped ever closer, desperate to see what would happen.
After a short period of silence, he reached over, knocked again, three times.
He heard a quiet shuffle from inside, fading as it went, a floorboard creaking.
Escape! He quickly unsheathed his machete, wedged its blade against the doorknob
and slammed down the handle until the brass orb hit the ground with a bang.
There was a yelp from inside as the blade pounded into the locking mechanism.
The door swung open. He pushed it, but a chain at the top stopped him. He glanced
back at the front door, the faces right against the glass now, their expressions tense,
angry, vengeful. He kicked the door open and quickly stormed in.
He was straight into the living room, a single rug covering the abused oak floor. To
the right, a grimy kitchen, the refrigerator door slightly ajar, feeble light lighting the
cupboards; no one there. He turned and saw, in the corner, a woman and a child
huddled in the corner, behind a chair. The woman didn’t make eye contact, but the boy
watched the Healer with wide open eyes. Not afraid, just… in awe.
The Healer carefully walked over, knelt down in front of the woman, but did not
speak. The boy’s mouth was crusted over with scabs, his skin yellowing, and he was
thinner than he ought to be, even malnourished. The Healer reached out a careful
hand, pushed the boy’s long hair off his forehead, saw the pox there. The woman could
tell, pulled the boy closer, tighter, started whimpering.
Behind him, a creak, the floor giving the rescue party away, and the Healer got to
his feet quickly, put his hand out to them as a warning. There were five of them, all
large men, all groggy, but intensely awake. He stared them down, one by one, and then
shook his head.
They started to spread out, trying to encircle him. Their stances were brave, but
inexperienced; spurred on by a sense of nobility, protecting their own. The one further
to his left put his arms out, his fists ready, and made quick eye contact with the others.
The Healer lowered his hand, kept his palms out, passive. The men all shifted
themselves, nervous. The Healer — hands out and visible — slowly bowed to them…
but as he held the bow he heard the swish from the left, and caught a man’s leg before
it hit his face.
125
With a quick twist, the man was flipped off his feet. He landed on his back, and the
Healer threw his leg away, stood straight, and blocked a wild punch from another
attacker. He grabbed the wrist, hit the elbow to disable him, and then slammed his
knee into the man’s right side, knocking him down and away. He turned to the last
three assailants, each backing up, looking oddly exposed with the numbers in their
favour.
The Healer again reached out a hand, shook his head ‘no’, but the boy was crying
now, and it added fire to their cause. The two downed men were groaning and rolling
back to their feet. He darted a look to them, and shook his head again.
The man in the middle was whispering something to himself, and the other two
reacted, became calm. The Healer didn’t understand the language, but grasped the
meaning by the pauses made at the last second…
One… two… three!
They charged him at once, a primal scream filling the room, but he was too fast.
He slammed the middle man’s head into the attacker on the right, and then pounded
the left-most face with a sharp plated elbow, sending them all sprawling, but none to
the floor. He kicked the middle man in the small of the back with so much force the
poor wretch lost his footing and landed on his back, his head crashing into the wood.
The one with the bloodied face was stumbling forward, not able to fight in his state
of shock, but valiantly wanting more. The Healer hit him in the stomach as hard as he
could, winded him so badly he collapsed onto the ground, probably glad he had an
excuse to stop.
The last man was dazed and unhurt, but the Healer passed up an easy kick to the
head. Instead, he grabbed him by the throat, lifted him off the ground, and pinned him
against the wall, the muscles in his arm twitching madly under the strain.
The Healer shook his head again, and the man’s eyes said he finally understood.
He sputtered something in gasps, and at the last, the Healer recognized a fragment of
German. He barely understood, but there was enough to follow…
He let the man go, let him drop to the ground, slumping into a pile. The Healer
knelt down before him, hand on his machete, warning.
126
“This boy sick,” he said, only able to piece together slivers of German to make his
case. “I must look… look for blood of Lewis.”
The man stared up, his eyes narrow, scared, his lip trembling.
“Boy?” he asked, speaking quietly but slowly. “Lewis is not here.”
The Healer looked at the boy, huddled in his mother’s arms, tears in his eyes, and
pointed.
“Lewis is not?” he asked.
The mother made eye contact, shivering, face wet, and urgently looked at the man
at the Healer’s feet, shook her head, didn’t speak, but shook her head.
“Lewis is not here,” the Healer understood from the tired man. “Not here… large.”
The word was wrong, but the context made sense. Lewis had not been there for
some time. The men behind him started getting their strength back, creaked back to
their feet.
“Where did Lewis go?” he asked, his voice deep with rage.
The man and woman traded looks, and she quickly glanced at the Healer
nervously, then back down, then seemed to think. She spoke quickly in Czech to the
man, her voice wavering, fearful, desperate. The man looked solemn, took a shaky
breath himself.
“We not know,” he answered cautiously. “Not here large.”
The Healer nodded, checked out the window at the distant skyline beyond the
snow. A massive city, with no leads.
The woman was talking again, and it sounded like an argument. The Healer looked
down at her and she quieted immediately, her eyes continuing the conflict silently. The
Healer glanced at the man, who was looking away, trying to avoid saying something.
He looked back up.
“Lewis —” … something new, difficult to understand … “— with. I know where.”
The Healer repeated the word he had missed, but the man seemed at a loss. The
Healer repeated it again, his voice sounding angrier than he intended, and the man’s
face fixed in fear.
“Lewis with wife. But not.”
“Wife,” he repeated.
127
“Not.”
The Healer nodded.
“Where is his wife?” he asked. The man looked sheepish now, glanced to his
comrades anxiously.
“Home of fire work,” the man said.
“Fire?”
“Big fire. With… people?”
Pause. He heard the breathing of the other men, but they were not moving.
Then, he understood.
“Home of big fire… old home of… games?”
The man looked at him blankly.
“Home of big fire, is also for games?” the Healer repeated, urgent.
The man nodded slowly.
“Games not large,” he said solemnly. “Not large. Fire now. Big fire.”
The Healer nodded, stepped back.
“Yes,” was all he could think to say.
The man touched his hand before he could leave, and he looked down again. The
eyes were red, pained, wrestling with a guilt he would never defeat. After a pause, a
raspy breath, he spoke:
“Wife… Marta. Lewis Kwong.”
Kwong. He bowed to the man, who retreated at the motion, straightened and said
a simple: “Thank you.”
The man didn’t answer. None of them spoke a word until he was gone from sight.
128
24
VIA RAINUSSO 108, MODENA, ITALY
JANUARY 5
Rhodri rolled off Eva and collapsed on the bed, arms over his head and breathing
heavily. She curled around him, rested her head on his chest, kissed it.
“Don’t go back to work,” she murmured, holding him tight. “Take the afternoon
off.”
He brushed her bare back with a dancing fingertip, smiled at her.
“What about you? Nothing to sell today?”
She rolled her eyes at him.
“I’ve got to paint more to sell more. And I’m definitely not inspired these days.”
“What do you need for inspiration? Tell me and I’ll get it for you.”
She stretched out and kissed him, his beard scratching her chin, and rested her
face against his neck.
“You don’t need to buy me things. I’m fine the way I am. And we should be saving,
not spending. Who knows when your luck will run out with the web jobs?”
Rhodri shrugged, stared at the ceiling.
“I’m pretty confident I’ve got it all taken care of.”
“Yeah, you say that a lot. But I seem to remember being overjoyed about eating an
apple a few months ago. I know how fast things can change.”
He bent his face down, looked her straight in the eyes, spoke softly.
“Things are going to be good now, Eva. I promise you that. Things are under
control, and getting better. I’m finally happy, and I’m going to make you happy too.”
She grinned at him, then swung a leg across him, crouching among the sheets, and
kissed his chin.
129
“Make me happy. Take the day off.”
He tried to protest, but she moved her body down gently and took away his
argument.
It was only minutes later that the peace was interrupted by the phone ringing
loudly, shattering the moment. Rhodri turned an anxious face to the bedside table, and
Eva caught his cheek with desperate hands.
“Ignore it,” she pleaded. “They’ll call back.”
He did, and they did. A minute later. This time, she couldn’t stop him from
snatching the handset off the cradle and holding it to his ear, his other hand pressing
a gentle finger to her lips to keep her quiet. She gave up the sounds, but not the
motions. He bit back a moan himself.
“Rhodri here,” he said, wavering.
He listened as Eva continued to make love, kissing his neck and his other ear, so
immersed in the act that she didn’t notice he was starting to sit up in bed, his brow
tight with concern.
“Right now?” he asked. “Do I have time to—”
Eva saw his expression, held back a bit, and tried in vain to hear the other end of
the conversation.
“All right,” Rhodri said. “Got it. I’ll call you when we get there.”
He hung up the phone, tossed it to the end of the bed. Eva, pausing herself, tried
to catch his gaze.
“When we get where?” she asked.
He was distracted, looking around the room.
“Graz. Austria.”
“Austria? What’s in Austria?”
“A great new opportunity, apparently,” he said, sliding out from under her and
throwing on his clothes. She sat there, nonplussed, and made no move to prepare.
“That was Dmitri again?” she asked, coldness in her voice.
“Yeah. He just heard there’s a big demand for web designers in Graz right now.
Money to be made. He’s already got us train tickets, but we’ve got to be at the station
by six.”
130
“And you trust him? You think this is a good idea?”
Rhodri smiled at her, but it was a weak smile. He shrugged.
“Dmitri’s always come through for me. If it weren’t for him, we’d be out on the
street right now. So if he wants us to go to Austria, I think we ought to give it a try.”
“What if we don’t like it there. What if there’s an outbreak, or the only place to stay
is worse than this?”
“The trains run both ways, Eva. Now come on, we’ve got to get ready. I need to pack
up the office and tell the landlord I’m leaving.”
Eva slipped into a pair of pyjama pants and a top, reached Rhodri as he was tying
his shoes. She crouched down next to him, brushed the side of his face with her fingers
and he looked at her. She rested her forehead against his.
“Are you sure we need this? I like it here. I thought we could just stay. You know.
Like forever.”
“Eva, I’m sorry. I like it here, too. But this is important to me. I wouldn’t even
entertain this idea if it weren’t important. We can make things better in Austria. Just
give it a try, okay?”
Eva looked at the ground for a minute, frowning. Then she met his eyes, nodded
slightly.
“Will you get any afternoons off in Graz?” she asked, and he grinned.
“I’ll make sure I do,” he replied.
* * *
Beyond the blue haze, Eva could see shapes. White and brown, grey and black…
they swirled ever so slightly, then began to solidify, became clear. She closed her eyes
for a moment, and when she opened them again, she was on the ground in the snow,
staring at a broken crate.
She rolled over, arm numb, and hit her head on the underside of the bench. Her
vision flooded again, but she fought it and crawled out into the square. The snow had
slowed to a trickle, though the sky was clear, light blue with only a few clouds. The air
was colder than before, and she pulled her jacket tight.
She was alone; Pyotr had left in the night. The only footprints were her own.
131
Just then, a shuffle from the alley sent her racing for the nearest wall. She pressed
herself against it tightly, grabbed a piece of broken wood from the ground and held it
ready. She heard the sound of feet crunching in the snow, and then, at the entrance…
“Eva?” asked Pyotr from a distance. She dropped the wood and rushed to him, and
he wrapped her in a blanket, rubbing her back. “Are you okay? When did you wake
up?”
“Just now,” she wheezed, her teeth chattering. “Where were you?”
“I had to go check on some—”
“You left me here, alone?” she said furiously.
“Listen, nobody’d come near you, lying on the ground like that. You were safer here
than most places.”
“So you say. I could’ve frozen to death.”
He nodded solemnly, met her eyes.
“I’m sorry, okay? I just wanted to see what I could find out.”
“About what?” she spat.
“Your mother,” he said, staring at his feet.
Eva closed her mouth, bit her lip. She was still woozy, but she had enough wits to
know what to do. She wrapped an arm around Pyotr, holding him tight.
“I’m sorry,” she whispered. “I’m sorry, and thank you.”
She let go and he shrugged, unhappily.
“It’s not all good news,” he said. “All I’ve got is an address from three weeks ago. If
she’s moved since then — and given the neighbourhood, she would — we’re out of
luck.”
Eva nodded, her determined air returning.
“How far is it?” she asked.
“Not far. A few blocks, actually. But… Eva, listen. You said this new plague hits in
December, right?”
“That’s what the police said.”
“That’s in two days, Eva. I don’t know if we have enough time to… I mean, if she’s
really lost out there, I don’t know if we’ll be able to find her before—”
132
“I know. I know what you’re saying,” said Eva. “But we have to try. She’s all I’ve got
left.”
“You’ve got Rhodri…”
“Not anymore,” she said, and started down the alley without him.
“Eva! Eva, what’s going on? What happened to you?”
She ignored him, kept walking, swaying side to side from the Tezocet, and he
caught her by the arm, turned her around.
“What happened with Rhodri, Eva?”
She didn’t meet his eyes, took shaky breaths.
“I can’t talk about it, Pyotr. I’m sorry. All I can say is that… that we’re not together
anymore, and you have to leave it at that.”
He stared at her, then nodded solemnly.
“Got it. Sorry. Forget I said anything.”
She managed a weak smile.
“So let’s go find your mum, and get out of this hellhole before the end of the month,
all right?”
* * *
Three blocks away, they stopped across the street from low-rise building, torn
apart by fire, looting and general decay. The top floors were missing entirely and she
could see the pale clouds and snow falling through the windows.
“This is it,” he said.
“Doesn’t look like the kind of place my mother would live,” Eva said.
“You’d be surprised,” he said. “Come on, let’s go see.”
The ground floor of the building was mostly boarded up, spray painted and abused.
There was trash piled up so thick it was like a horrible wall of filth blocking their way.
Pyotr pushed his way in and reached back for Eva, who had a hard time managing the
uneven footing to get to the windows. She thought she saw a human arm sticking from
one of the bags there. The air was ripe like sour grape jelly.
133
Pyotr brought them through to an old wooden window that thankfully slid up
without much trouble. He climbed inside, then and lifted her over the ledge, putting
her feet down carefully on an old wood floor.
It smelled of urine and cinnamon, which was an odd and sickening combination.
Eva fumbled trying to cover her mouth and nose with her hand. Pyotr just screwed up
his face, persevered.
The room was mostly empty, a broken chair lying sideways in the corner. A door
at the far end that was waving slightly in a breeze Eva couldn’t feel, a sliver of light
easing in and out along the floor like a faint heartbeat. An odd tension, the starkness
of it, and it made Eva’s haze lift even more. She swallowed slowly.
Pyotr opened the door halfway and they sneaked through, found another empty
room on the other side. It didn’t smell nearly as bad here, but again there was no sign
of Eva’s mother. A cool breeze drifted through.
Then they heard it: a scuffling, a thud and scuffling, and the creak of a floorboard
above. It stopped suddenly, and the room got so quiet Eva tried not to breathe, as if
there were something to hear her. She cocked her head to Pyotr, motioned to the door.
He nodded to her, continued on. She followed through the doorless exit and into a
narrow hallway, a row of nails in the wall where frames had once hung. At the end of
the stretch was the source of the light: a stairwell leading up, the head of the bannister
missing and a coat draped over the railing.
Eva grabbed Pyotr’s arm before he could walk further.
“It’s not my mother, I can tell,” she whispered as quietly as she could.
He nodded to her, reassuring, and she felt her fear starting to ease away just by the
motion.
“We’ll see,” he whispered back. “You can never be sure.”
He took her hands in his, and tugging her along, they walked as gingerly as they
could to avoid making noise.
She heard another scuffle, another thump, then more silence. They stopped, within
reach of the bannister, and Pyotr leaned forward to peek around the corner, up the
stairs. Eva moved with him, and she eased closer, closer, trying to see…
A crazed man’s face stared her down intensely.
134
“You!” he roared.
135
25
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
“I said quiet!” shouted the man in a deranged voice. He reached between the bars
and grabbed Pyotr’s jacket, pulling him into the chipped wood banister with a jerk.
“They’ve found me!” hissed the man, let Pyotr loose a bit, and then slammed him
back into the columns, and then again, and again. Eva tried to get a hold on the man’s
fists, but he was moving too much … Pyotr started twisting, trying to get free.
“You can’t have me!” shouted the man. “The lions can’t have me anymore!” And he
suddenly bared his teeth and lunged at Eva’s neck. She flinched, but the railings were
too close together. The man hit his forehead and grabbed his face in pain, cursing loud,
uneven words to himself. Pyotr stumbled backwards against the wall and put his arms
up, ready to defend himself.
“Pyotr, let’s go!” Eva implored, backing towards the door.
Pyotr watched the man, his face cocky and sure.
“If your mum’s here, we can’t leave her,” Pyotr said, not taking his eyes off the man.
“I think we should fight for it.”
The man peered from between his fingers, blood dripping down his forehead where
he seemed to be clawing himself raw. He stared at Pyotr for a moment, as if something
connected, as if he remembered…
“Fight?” he said, his voice quiet. “Fight...”
“Pyotr!” Eva whispered, edging away. “This is a bad idea.”
Pyotr waved her off, started sliding around the stairs, his fists out, ready for
anything. When he got around the side of the steps, the bleeding man turned savagely,
136
shuddering. They stared at each other, neither moving, like a showdown between
hopeless fools.
“Get out now,” Pyotr growled to the man, his face so solid and imposing.
Eva was just about to say something when the man leapt off the stairs and slammed
Pyotr into the wall, both of them landing on the ground with a crunch. Eva stumbled
back and fell too, the world still not steady enough through the painkillers.
Pyotr held onto the man’s wrists with steady grips, but the beast was too
determined … three long gashes of red along Pyotr’s cheek made Eva cringe. She yelped
for him, but he didn’t react. He swung the beast away, then slammed his head into the
wall.
The man screamed out in pain, rolled on his back, scratched at his own face again.
Pyotr quickly got to his knees, tried to stand, but the man grabbed his leg and pulled,
knocked him down onto the steps, starting clawing up him ferociously. Pyotr was
reduced to smacking the advance away with his fists, grunting as he was scraped along
the belly.
Eva pulled herself up the wall, stumbling forward down the hall toward them. She
had the determination, but her body wasn’t playing along: her elbow landed weakly on
his spine, and he quickly changed his gaze to her instead. She skidded back, narrowly
avoided a red hand swinging out at her.
The movement gave Pyotr his chance: he planted a hand on the man’s neck and
crushed his head into the bannister so viciously it creaked. Then, not taking any
chances, he grabbed the tattered shirt with both hands and threw him sideways into
the far wall, and the man crumpled to the ground in a murmuring mess.
Eva pulled herself off the ground and came to Pyotr’s side, gripped his arms tightly
and pulled him to his feet. She put her hands in his shoulders and caught her own
breath a moment.
“That was stupid,” she said, her mind clearing faster after the adrenaline rush.
He nodded weakly, closed his eyes and winced at the cuts to his cheek.
“It’ll be worth it,” he said quietly. “If she’s here.”
137
The motion was so fast, Eva didn’t have time to react. The bloody man slammed a
gnarled elbow into Pyotr’s neck, and he collapsed down instantly onto the floor, and
Eva found herself face-to-face with a dripping red nightmare.
“Eva…” Pytor murmured from below, “Run for it. Run…”
The man snickered at her, at her being cornered. She glanced left, saw the door
they’d come through. The man was daring her to do it, to run, to give him some sport.
She returned her gaze to him, defeated. Sighed.
And punched him so hard in the face his nose broke.
As he stumbled back in pain, Eva made a run for it. She skidded down the hallway
and around the corner, back into the far room, where she lost her footing briefly and
bounced into a wall. She grabbed hold on the door frame and pulled herself into the
outer room, and slammed the door, pushing against it for a second before it shuddered
violently as the madman threw himself at it. Her bandaged arm seared with pain, but
she couldn’t let up.
Eva knew her position was tenuous at best, and the pained screaming from the
other side of the door made her push harder, keeping her safe, but also trapped in this
horrible little room. At least Pyotr was safe while she was being chased.
Then, a pause, a break in all the noise.
No pressure on the door, no sound at all. Eva pushed her ear against the wood,
trying to hear something on the other side.
It was quiet. Her own breathing was slow and shaky, and she tried to filter it out as
she searched for some sign from the other side. She heard nothing but silence.
Then she heard a scuffle, a thump, and scuffle, and more nothingness. She exhaled,
trembling now, and swallowed down some of the fear she’d been holding on to.
“Pyotr?” she called through the door.
Bang! the door shook, and the screaming returned, and Eva’s feet slid on the damp
wood floor and she scrambled to regain her footing before the man charged the door
again, pounding it violently.
She leaned into it with all her weight, turning to the side and shoving her shoulder
against the side of the door, gripping the doorknob so tightly her fingers were numb.
The man rammed the door again, again, and again, and then suddenly the hinges blew
138
off and the door flew in, pinning Eva against the wall and letting the madman surge
through.
She was so shocked by the door breaking that it took her a moment to get back up,
to push the wrecked wood off herself. The man had collided with the far wall and was
stumbling to his feet, too, but he was closer to the window, her only escape. Impossibly
far away. The man slowly straightened up, blood pouring out of the scrapes in his
forehead and his nose, and stared at Eva with irrational hatred.
“Lions!” he snarled, and lunged, shoving Eva back into the wall, fingers trying to
claw and scrape at whatever they could. She was overwhelmed, but swung her knee up
into the man’s groin with as much force as she could muster. It had little effect but to
throw them both off-balance, so they fell back onto the floor, the man atop Eva, still
trying to kill.
Behind her, Eva could feel the edge of the broken chair, and she tried to pull herself
up enough to get hold on it. She succeeded, but at the cost of a deep gash to the side of
her face. She inhaled at the pain, got a mouthful of the smell of the room again, and
gagged.
Her fingers slipped off the chair leg and the man put his filthy red hand over her
whole face, squeezed, and smacked her head back onto the ground, cackling, dripping
all over her.
Eva’s thumb pushed the chair leg in a bit, and her hand wrapped around it. She
swung it forward with such force it broke free from the rest of the chair. The wood hit
the man in the side of the head, and he screamed out in pain. He rolled away from Eva,
clutching his ear, snarling loudly and scuttling away into the corner.
Eva gasped for air, but her body didn’t like what it was getting. She felt lightheaded, groggy, but intensely alive. She managed to get to her feet, started towards the
door, back to see if Pyotr was alive. Just as she reached the door, she heard a noise
from behind, and swung around with the chair leg, hitting the charging man in the side
of the head; the wood and his skull cracked, and he flew sideways and onto the floor,
skidding to a stop in a pile, blood pulsing out from so many places she didn’t know
what she’d done.
139
He took a shallow breath, bubbling, and Eva dropped to the man’s side, tried to
feel for a pulse. She was crying, her head aching, her cheek stinging, and blood
everywhere.
“Eva,” came a voice from behind, and she jerked, looked round at Pyotr, hand on
the back of his head, groggy. His eyes were narrow and pained.
“He… he wouldn’t stop…” Eva stammered, her arms wrapping round herself, tears
still flowing.
“It’s okay, Eva,” Pyotr said, coming closer, offering her his arms. “You had to.”
From behind, the man exhaled a long breath, and then the bubbling stopped. Eva
didn’t look back, pushed her face into Pyotr’s chest and cried.
“Come on,” Pyotr said, lifting her up. “Let’s see. Let’s see if she’s here.”
Eva nodded, got to her feet, and paced up the stairs to the second floor, slow and
careful, watching her feet as she went. When they got to the landing, she hesitated,
kept from looking up. Pyotr nudged her forward, then took off and checked the various
rooms off the main area.
Eva looked around, saw the space, the half-normal living room that had been
picked apart over the years. A table and chairs, a potted plant that had withered to
nothing. A large painting of blotchy patterns on the wall. A simple rug, frayed at the
edges and rippled so it fit into a smaller space than it should have. A long red jacket,
black embroidered flowers at its base, was draped over a leather sofa at the far end of
the room.
“She’s not here,” said Pyotr glumly, kicking around.
“No,” said Eva, her eyes locked on the jacket. “But she was.”
140
26
STADIUM EDEN, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
The fence around the stadium was tall, chain link, rusted but unbroken. The
parking lot was covered with ashes and large metal containers, several workers milling
about in hazmat suits, pushing sealed carts around, ferrying the dead to their final
resting place. No one spoke.
At the entrance there was a guard with a machine gun, and he stared at the Healer
passively. He wasn’t there to keep people out, didn’t care if some fool wandered in. The
Healer watched him as he entered, studying the gun carefully.
Right next to the stadium doors was a small shack, the head office, and from the
gates to the office was a wide boulevard where the collection trucks rode. The Healer
made his way down the centre of that street, looking at the crates to his left and right,
and the workers around him froze and stared, anxious.
He stopped at the office and stared at the fogged windows, the steps leading up to
the thin wooden door. He took a step towards them when he heard the faint static of
his phone in his ear, and froze, looked around, and then up at the sky.
“Green Four, this is Home. What is your status?”
He started away from the shack, back the way he came. He spoke quietly, backing
against the concrete wall of the stadium.
“All is well,” he said.
Static.
“You are outside the city core,” Home said. “What is your status?”
“I am following a lead,” he replied.
Pause.
141
“You were following a lead last night, Green Four. What was the result of that
action?”
“The target was not at that location,” he said. “but I have solid information about
his whereabouts.”
“Your schedule does not allow for errors, Green Four. If you are encountering
difficulties—”
“I will meet my target before—”
“— we can have another agent at your location—”
“No.” said the Healer loudly, and the workers nearby checked him warily. “LS-411
will be resolved today. I will have results soon.”
Static, silence. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw a man dressed in a half-mask
heading toward him, directly at him, his stride aggressive. The Healer turned away,
waited on the reply. When it came, it was distorted and fragmented by the clouds
above.
“We… review… will recall,” they said before the radio cut out. The Healer tightened
his fists, trembling with anger. The man who had been approaching was close now,
confident and imposing; the Healer spun around, hit him in the chest, knocking him
flat on his back. He knelt down on the man, foot on a flailing wrist, and leaned in, using
his mask and inhuman voice to their fullest potential.
“Marta,” he growled, and the man twitched, terrified. “Marta!” he shouted again
The man nodded urgently, spoke in Czech, voice high and whining. The Healer let
go his hand and he pointed up, up at the stadium. He spoke more, but the Healer
ignored him, threw him to his feet, and shoved him towards the massive entrance
doors.
Inside were the furnaces. Giant corroded metal beasts sprawled across the turf,
their large vaulted doors lit at the sides by fire so hot it left no trace of their fuel at all.
Ashes landed heavily around them, covering the aisles in centimetres-thick horror.
Workers in heavy masks pushed wide shovels down walkways, clearing the mess, the
last hint of their friends and neighbours dumped into dustbins and carted away.
142
The Healer paused briefly before a large orange furnace, different than the others.
Older. On the side, beneath a Czech ID number, he saw the traces of a word he
understood, in characters so familiar they seemed foreign:
SHANGHAI
He trembled, turned away, and his hostage paused too as the other workers slowly
backed into the shadows and ran away. The Healer took heavy breaths as his suit
whined urgently in his ears, then forced himself to be calm, standing up tall, his grip
on the man’s arm re-tightening to the point of agony.
They continued forward, around another corner, until the man paused slightly,
pointed with a hesitant finger. There, in the distance, was a woman with a flimsy cloth
mask and a scarf tied round her hair, pushing a shovel down the aisle.
The woman noticed them, looked up slowly, then her eyes widened, fear, terror,
and she ran, back and to the right, disappearing behind a set of furnaces.
The Healer let go his captive and took off after her, his pack slamming against him
with every stride, but his pace quick and precise. He ran down the near side of the
furnaces until he came to a corner, peered around carefully and caught sight of Marta
dashing away. He tore off, his feet skidding a bit in the ashes, awkwardly dodging the
red-hot furnaces.
At the end of the aisle was a crossroads, a few pale shafts of light making it into the
clearing past the smoke and machinery, and he paused to check around him. No signs
of anyone, no hints of where Marta had gone. The ashes on the ground blew around in
a whirlwind, and soon even his own footprints had disappeared. He turned in circles,
watching, listening beyond the roar of the fires.
Nothing moved but the embers, dancing up and out of the stadium.
With a start, he ran back towards the doors as fast as he could, cloak flapping
behind him as he mastered his environment, picking up speed with every step. As he
looked to his right, he saw Marta across the way, running the same direction.
She caught sight of him and screamed, started running faster. The Healer fell
around a corner, slid in the ashes and landed on his knees. He skidded, putting out a
143
hand at the last second, involuntarily, and touched a furnace. His fingertips seared
with pain, and he bit back a curse.
He got back to his feet and started running fast again, came round the far corner
and turned left, saw Marta clearing the doors, out into the sunlight, quick but faltering,
wheezing in the impure air. The Healer closed the gap, came close enough, and then
slid along the ground beneath her, tripping her up, and she crashed to the ground.
His suit whined at his exertion levels and he struggled to calm his breathing, but
he kept moving, crawling up and over her, pushed his hand into her neck, holding her
hostage. Her eyes, dizzy and dazed, opened wide again, and she struggled, tried to get
free.
She screamed out for help, but he ignored her, pulled the mask off her mouth; the
falling ashes landed on her tongue, and she gagged, spat them out.
“Lewis Kwong,” he said.
She just stared, shook her head, terrified by the mask, he could tell. He gripped her
neck, squeezed, and she whimpered.
“Lewis Kwong!” he roared.
She started to cry, nodded to him over and over again. He eased up on her, placed
his burnt hand against her forehead and leaned in close. She met his goggled eyes,
hysterical and terrified.
“Lewis,” he said. “Kwong.”
And she nodded again.
He got to his feet, grabbed her by the front of her jacket and pulled her up too,
tossed her back onto her feet. He pointed back, out the gates, into the city. She nodded
weakly.
“Lewis Kwong,” he said simply.
“P-P-Panská,” she stuttered, holding up ten, then two fingers. “Panská dvanáct.”
He repeated the words back to her, his pronunciation imperfect, but she nodded a
terrified ‘yes’ to him, eyes wide with fear. He was so intent on the address that he very
nearly missed the man to his right, swinging a fist at his head. He stepped back quickly,
caught the arm and twisted it back and around, and the man fell to his knees quickly.
144
The Healer hit him on the back of the head with his arm, and he fell unconscious. Marta
yelped, backed away.
Three other men were closing in, ready to tackle him. He unsheathed his machete
and lunged forward, grabbed Marta by the hair and flung himself around behind her,
the blade to her neck. He pulled her head back and slid the weapon a bit to the side,
cut her slightly, and her friends stopped.
He shook his head to them, slowly, carefully, and watched them. The two of them
backed away towards the gate, encircled closely by the collection of workers, angling
and shifting, waiting for the right moment to strike.
The Healer saw the chain link next to him, the fields beyond, knew he was nearly
there. But then… the guard, the gun! He ducked quickly as the machine gun blasted
Marta in the neck and head, sending her flailing forward. Without pause, the Healer
spun round and embedded his machete in the guard’s neck so fast his dead body
bounced off the gate before falling.
The Healer caught the gun and reared about, aiming at Marta’s friends, who were
in shock at the sight of her lying on the ground, their own faces splattered with red. He
backed up carefully, gun never wavering, and passed the gate, out onto the road,
shaking his head slowly to those that would try and follow. None moved.
“Green Four to Home,” he said as his pace quickened along the main road. “I need
directions.”
“Green Four, what—”
“Panská dvanáct,” he interrupted savagely. “Make sense of it and tell me how to
find it. This ends now.”
145
27
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Crew put his hand over the heater vent on the dashboard, tried to feel the warm air
as the engine purred. The snow on the windshield was falling, sliding on slick ice. He
cursed, stomped his foot on the ground, and turned the air flow up to the highest
setting.
“Come on… work faster…” he grumbled.
His phone rang and he screwed up his face, holding it to his numb ear.
“Crew,” he said.
“Any luck?” came Sobotka’s voice.
“None yet. Just got back from the square, turned up nothing. Did you know the
clocksmith died?”
“No kidding. I bet the mayor’s having a fit. What happened to his security detail?”
Crew cricked his neck.
“I heard they were out drinking last week. Haven’t heard anything since. How
much you want to bet they get charged with criminal negligence over it? The son’s sick,
the daughter’s clueless… pretty soon, there’s no one left that can keep that thing
running anymore.”
“What’s it been, 500 years?”
“Something like that.”
Sobotka grunted something similar to disapproval, despair.
“What’re you doing now?”
“Just taking a break,” he sighed. “How bout you?”
“Interesting development,” she said. “I’ll tell you later.”
146
“Sure,” Crew said, felt for the heat again, still couldn’t tell.
“What’s that noise?” Sobotka pried. “Do you hear that?”
“Don’t know. Don’t hear anything.”
“Crew, you moron, did you break into another car?”
Crew rolled his eyes, turned the heat dial down, then all the way back up.
“I ran the plates, the owner’s been dead a year.”
“It’s still against the law. If a cleaning crew finds you you’re going to get in trouble.”
“Listen,” Crew said, looking out the window at the empty street, “those lazy
cleaning bastards haven’t been down this way for a long time. And I need this break.”
“Right,” said Sobotka, and the word was wonderfully loaded. Crew stretched his
legs, shifted in his seat and felt a spark against his knee. Two dangling wires
underneath the steering wheel dropped loose and the car went dead.
“Shit, hold on,” he said, threw the phone on the passenger seat and bent down,
tapped the wires back together and twisted them a bit to keep them joined. He grabbed
the phone, perched it between his shoulder and his ear, and felt for the heat again.
“Made me knock the car off.”
“Can you feel my regret?” Sobotka deadpanned.
“Oh yeah,” Crew grumbled.
“So you ready to come help me fix the Kolikov problem now?” she asked. “Or are
you still wasting time?”
Crew’s eyelids drooped halfway and his jaw clenched.
“I’m still wastin’ time,” he replied.
Then he saw something, out of the clearing windshield, through a space in the
snow… a figure in the distance… a head, dark brown, bobbing behind a snow-covered
van. Crew froze, watched carefully. The head ducked down out of sight for a second,
and then came back up, checking away from him, and then turning back again. Crew
clenched his teeth: a full mask wrapped round the head, no skin in sight.
“I’ll call you back,” he said, closed the phone, and quietly opened the door. He drew
his gun as he crossed the street with light-footed caution, came round the van in a rush.
“You! Don’t move!” Crew shouted savagely, gun darting forcefully towards the
stranger.
147
The man reacted immediately, dropped the metal case he had been carrying and
placed his hands up above his head. Crew moved in behind him, ready to fire into the
back of his skull, and kicked the case away. The man twitched at the sound, glanced
back at him, like he was sizing up his opposition.
Crew kept a safe distance, motioned downward with his gun.
“Get down on the ground! Hands behind your head!”
The man complied, got to his knees, put his hands to the back of his mask. He
didn’t seem to be armed. At least not obviously.
“Down! Down!” Crew repeated as the man paused on his knees.
“Don’t shoot!” the man yelled, his Czech heavily accented. “Don’t shoot!”
Crew walked closer to the man and kicked his shoulder, and he fell over into the
snow, but kept his hands over his head, obviously taking Crew seriously.
“I’m with the British government,” the man called as Crew circled closer. “I’m not
armed.”
“What’s in the case?” Crew challenged, keeping his gun very visible.
“Equipment,” the man pleaded. “for blood tests. Just for testing.”
“Where did you get that mask?” Crew asked, edging closer.
“It’s standard issue for—”
“Looks Chinese to me.”
“It is! We buy them from Beijing, but I’m British, I swear!”
Crew grunted, re-gripped his gun, nudged the man in the shoulder with his foot.
“So why the Healer get-up if you’re not Chinese?”
“Healers are guaranteed safe passage. It’s… it’s considered a safe cover—”
Crew laughed maniacally.
“Safe? You’ve never been this far east, have you? Any able-bodied Czech with a
sense of honour would kick a Healer’s ass in a heartbeat if he got the chance. Really,
really poor choice of costumes on your part.”
“It’s standard issue,” he pleaded, “in all black zone areas.”
Crew’s gun faltered a bit, he stepped back.
“Black?”
148
The man turned his head slightly, not moving his hands at all, checked Crew
nervously.
“Ev… everything east of central Germany is considered a black zone now.”
“When is that supposed to have happened?”
“T-two months ago,” the man stuttered. “At a meeting in Geneva.”
“So why’m I just hearing about it now, from you?”
The faux-Healer put his head down onto the sidewalk.
“They’re still trying to think how best to inform the public. They’re… they’re afraid
of civil unrest.”
Crew snorted, turned away briefly and put his hands atop his head, sighing loudly.
“Why? Just because they’re leaving us here to rot, so they can come in later and
‘start fresh’? Why’d that lead to civil unrest? That sounds like a great plan!”
“I can understand you’re upset, but—”
“What’re you doing here?” Crew said, re-training his gun. “Who are you?”
The man turned his head slightly to look at Crew.
“My name is William Carey. I work for the Containment Office in London. I’m…
I’m tracking a British national who was last seen living in Prague.”
“Who is he?” Crew said, his tone a civil sort of demand.
“I’m sorry, it’s… it’s classified,” Carey muttered.
Crew half-lowered his gun, took a tentative step forward. Carey didn’t move, stayed
still. Crew’s voice was quiet, angry.
“You’re here illegally. Tell me why I shouldn’t shoot you now. Give me one reason.”
“I’m here legally!” pleaded Carey. “Ask your Director of Public Safety! I’m due for
a meeting there in an hour, I swear!”
Crew shifted his weight.
“Sestak? Knows you’re here?”
“Call him. We’re co-ordinating efforts.”
Neither man moved for a moment.
“What will you do when you find this fugitive?”
Carey motioned to his case, looked back up.
“Test him, make sure he’s clean, and… then… then bring him home for trial.”
149
“And if he’s not clean?”
Carey paused.
“I have… I have an order of exile for him. He’ll be banished from Britain forever.”
Crew snorted a laugh.
“So he’s our problem?”
“We have a directive! It’s out of my hands! A directive to protect our citizens from
any dangers… even themselves.”
Crew nodded at this, put his gun away too, grunted angrily.
“Funny,” he said to no one in particular. “so do we.”
He delivered a swift kick to the back of Carey’s head, and could see he was out cold.
Crew nudged the metal case with his foot. It had a complex lock on it, which he spun
the numbers on casually, then picked it up, slammed it against a nearby wall, and
threw it down the sidewalk as far as he could. He lifted his mask long enough to spit
on Carey’s unconscious head.
He turned, took his phone from his jacket and rang Sobotka.
“Sorry. Thought I had something there,” he said, pacing away from the scene.
“Dead end?”
Crew glanced back at Carey, lying in the snow.
“Might be later.”
He kept walking, stopped in front of the car, the beautiful abandoned car. He
looked around the street, didn’t see anyone.
“You don’t suppose...” he began, but Sobotka cut him off.
“You can’t steal the car.”
“It’s more like borrowing.”
“You can’t take it.”
“It’s an Aston Martin, though.”
Pause.
“Silver?”
“In-dash GPS too. And it works.”
Pause.
“Park it away from the station, and don’t leave fingerprints.”
150
Crew smiled, snapped the phone shut and got into the car, gripped the steering
wheel longingly. The heat had kicked in.
151
28
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva turned the coat over in her hands, the smell of her mother still strong. Pyotr
stood beside her, frowning.
“I got her this coat the winter before I went to school,” Eva said quietly. “She said
the red and the black flowers made it look like she was the angel of death.”
“Nice,” Pyotr smiled.
“She wore it anyway. I think she liked being the angel of death sometimes.”
She felt around it, in the pockets, found nothing but tissues and fluff. Then, on the
inside breast pocket, she pulled out a folded fragment of a paper. It was filled with
numbers, split by dashes, spilling off the edge. She grinned at it, then flipped it over
and gasped. Pyotr caught the paper before it dropped out of her hand.
It read: ‘Rhodri,’ and a phone number.
“Is that…?” Pyotr asked
“Our old number, yeah.”
“Did your mother know Rhodri?”
Eva shook her head, sat down on the sofa.
“No, they never met. I don’t know how she’d have this number. We never called
each other or…”
Pyotr sat down next to her, took her hands in his.
“Maybe she was contacting him, trying to find out where you were? You said you’ve
been travelling a lot… maybe she got worried and was checking up on you.”
Pyotr sprang from the sofa, across the room to a small rotary phone, sitting in the
corner, dusty and cracked. He brushed it off, carried it over to Eva, set it on her lap.
152
“Maybe she went after you. Maybe she’s already out of town.”
“What’s the phone for, Pyotr?”
“If she went to Rhodri, the two of them might be looking for you.”
Eva took the phone, gripped it tight.
“That didn’t happen,” she said seriously, and put it on the ground beside her. She
flipped the paper over, looked at the string of numbers.
“What’s all that? Some kind of address?”
“It’s a note to herself. She writes in code to keep people from snooping.”
“What people?”
“Me, mostly,” Eva said with a smile, “Lists for birthday presents, stuff like that.
Letters-to-numbers, shifted on a rolling cipher. It’s complicated, but she really has it
down.”
“She’s pretty good with patterns, I guess.”
“Yeah,” nodded Eva, squinting at the paper, “Took me until I was seven to catch on
myself. Learned about my first laptop three weeks early, and I’ve been keeping my
codebreaking skills secret ever since.”
“So wait, you can read this?”
“Oh yeah, definitely,” she smiled, “It’s a bit tricky with the edge of the page ripped
off, but I’m pretty sure it says something like ‘Wednesday, five o’clock, Sestak’…”
“Dobroslav Sestak?” Pyotr hissed.
“It doesn’t say. Who’s that?”
“Director of Public Safety. Real hard ass. He’s the one who shut down all the city
squares, made the police his personal germ-killing army. He’s got more power than
the mayor, and he knows it.”
“So my mother went to him for what? As an advisor?”
“Couldn’t be. She was fired. Why would he meet with her?”
Eva nodded, rubbed her temple gently. The leftovers of the Tezocet were making
her so tired…
“There’s only one way to find out,” she said. “We’ll have to go ask him ourselves.”
Pyotr barely got in front of her, pushing her back with a pleading hand.
153
“Eva, wait, hold on! His office is like a fortress over there. There’s no way we’d get
in to see him, even if we weren’t on the run from the police!”
“He might know what happened to my mother, Pyotr!”
“All you have connecting them is this… this scribbled note that means nothing!
Eva, listen! I want to find your mum as much as anyone, but this is not the best use of
our time right now!”
She grabbed his shoulder tightly, looked into his eyes.
“I’m going,” she said simply. “With or without you.”
She started down the stairs again, holding her breath for fear of losing her resolve.
Pyotr stayed still a moment, then let out a deep sigh and followed her outside.
* * *
The gear they’d stolen from the storehouse at the park on Rašínovo nábřeží smelled
clean and crisp, like antiseptic and lemons. Eva fidgeted with the latch on the back of
her mask, pulling it tighter around her face until she could no longer feel the cold air
on the skin below her cheekbones.
Pyotr rifled through a plastic bag, frustrated.
“There’s only one glove in here. They forgot to pair them, the bastards.”
“You should go back and complain,” Eva smiled.
They paused at a corner near the old apartment building Sestak had claimed as his
office. They glanced around in turns, checking out the trio of armed guards by the front
doors, floodlights blasting onto the sidewalk like a fortress.
“See what I mean?” Pyotr whispered, “It’s not like they’re offering tours of the
place.”
“Maybe there’s a side entrance or something,” Eva said, “We’ve got to get closer.
Come on—”
Pyotr grabbed her arm, pulled her back.
“Not a chance,” he warned, “You’re waiting here. I’ll go see if there’s another way
in.”
“Is this chivalry?”
154
“No, it’s you looking so dazed that they’re going to know something’s up at the sight
of you. I can still pull off ‘casual’ if I have to.”
Eva nodded, patted him on the back.
“Keep the mask on tight, and don’t stare, okay?”
“What am I, an idiot?” he smiled back, then strode around the corner as if on a
midday stroll. In any other circumstances, it would have seemed natural.
Eva peered around the corner, watching as Pyotr closed the gap towards Sestak’s
building, hands deep in his pockets. He skipped off the sidewalk, down onto the street,
and started crossing closer to the floodlights.
“Hey!” shouted one of the guards, taking aim with a machine gun, “Other side,
kid!”
Pyotr skidded to a stop, held his hands up to show compliance, and moved back to
the far side of the street, eyes carefully away from the guards, who were watching him
cautiously.
Eva tracked him until he turned the corner a block away, then started walking back
to meet him halfway, breath streaming out of her mask in tense bursts.
Just as she spotted Pyotr rounding the corner ahead, the air filled with the sound
of bells… clumsy at first, then a slow, mournful tolling that echoed off the buildings,
drawing Eva deeper into despair.
“What’s going on?” she said to Pyotr when they met halfway down the block.
“The clocksmith’s son just died. People are freaking out.”
Eva glanced up as more bells rang out, the distant sound of weeping from untold
homes nestled away from this frozen hell she was living.
“They were really that loved?” she asked.
“The clock’s a symbol of hope to the city,” Pyotr said. “It’s irrational, but people
really care about that family. Nuts as he is, Sestak understands that pulse.”
Eva squinted, looked to Pyotr.
“Sestak knows them?”
“Knows them? They’re like his pet project. He’s going to have a hell of a time
finding a way to spin this mess. He must be in agony right now.”
Eva checked back the way she’d come.
155
“You said there was a daughter, right?”
Pyotr glared at her.
“Yes. Why?”
“How old is she?”
“I don’t know.”
“How old was the son?”
“I don’t know that either. Listen—”
“You know all the ins and outs of this entire city, but when it comes to the most
beloved family of all, you’re drawing blanks?”
“Yeah, right after I eat my stale wafer rations off the floor, I put on my tux for a
night out with Prague’s social elite. Nobody gets to see these people anymore. They
don’t leave home at all.”
Eva smiled to him, patted his cheek.
“Not usually, no.”
* * *
The guards outside Sestak’s building had their guns on her the second she started
towards them. They were not taking any chances, especially with a lone woman weepy
and stumbling, wearing no jacket in this weather.
“Other side!” the close one called, but she didn’t turn or slow down. He stepped out
onto the street, adjusted his mask and took careful aim at her head.
“Ma’am! Stay on the other side of the street!”
Eva looked up at him with horrible, teary eyes, her mask pulled tight around her
face, and choked down as loud a sob as she could manage.
“They’re all dead!” she wept, treading a fine line between melodrama and
authenticity.
“Ma’am, you need to back up right now,” the guard warned, taking a step back
himself. Eva slowed, stood there in the street, shivering from the cold.
“My… my father was the clocksmith,” she said staring into the sky. “My brother
just died. I need to see Dobroslav. I need to tell him… my brother, he left a message for
him.”
156
The guard squinted at Eva a moment.
“You’re the clocksmith’s daughter?”
Eva met his eyes, pushed as many tears as she could to the surface.
“Y-y-yes,” she nodded.
The bells in the air were stifling. Inescapable. The guard kept his gun on her, but
touched his earpiece, tilting his head away.
“I’ve got the clocksmith’s daughter here to see the Director. Says she has a message
from her brother.”
He heard something over the radio, glanced up at Eva.
“She said that too,” he nodded, easing his gun a bit.
Eva tried to bide her time with as authentic a way as possible, staring into the
clouds and praying for the soul of her lost family. It wasn’t as hard to do.
“Hold on,” said the guard to the radio, then looked at Eva sternly. “You’re Ana?”
Eva realized she had no idea what the daughter’s name really was. The guard
looked suspicious, untrusting. If it were a trap, she’d have no way to talk him out of it.
She wavered, let out a long, sad breath, met the guard’s stare head-on.
“Yes,” she said.
He watched her seriously as the wind bit cold across them both. His left eye
twitched.
She let her breath go, inhaled sharply, let her gaze wander down, down to the snow,
and started to cry again.
The guard watched her, wincing, then lowered his gun.
“Give me the message,” he said.
“I… I need to see—”
“Nobody sees the Director, ma’am. I’m sorry. Give me the message and I’ll let him
know as soon as he’s free.”
Eva shook her head sadly, inhaled deeply.
“It’s… it’s personal. I don’t think Dobroslav would want anyone else to—”
“Ma’am, I appreciate your concerns, but I’m afraid there’s no way you can see him.
No disrespect, but you’ve just come from your brother’s deathbed. I can’t take the risk
that the Director will catch whatever it is that killed your family.”
157
It was the perfect cue. Eva began crying loudly, fell to her knees, cupping her face
in her hands.
“Please!” she wept. “Please, it was his last request! I can’t ignore his last request!
Please!”
The guard grit his teeth, looked back at the building and put his hand to his ear
again.
“You’re getting this?” he asked quietly. “Yes. All right.”
He reached a hand down to Eva, touching her shoulder lightly.
“The best I can do is the clean room,” he said. “You’ll be separated by two sheets of
plastic, but you’ll be able to talk. I know it’s not what you want, but it’s private, and it’s
as personal as you’re going to get.”
Eva looked up with teary eyes.
“Thank you!” she gasped. “Thank you! That will be perfect. Absolutely perfect.”
158
29
PLATNÉŘSKÁ 110, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
“Are you sure I can’t offer you something to drink, Mr Carey?” asked Sestak,
pouring himself a glass of scotch behind his large, ornate desk.
“No sir. Thank you, sir,” said Carey, bowing politely, the stiff leather of his suit
creaking with every movement. “I’m afraid I can’t take the mask off to enjoy it.”
“Ah,” nodded Sestak. “Quite right. I apologize. But do you mind if I…?”
“Not at all, Director. It’s your home.”
Sestak smiled serenely, putting the glass to his lips, pausing to watch the absurdity
of the scene: this almost inhuman monster standing in the middle of a classic Prague
drawing room. Buckles and air filters met plush velvet curtains, and the result was
unpredictably obscene to his sensibilities.
“Shall we get straight to business? I have a call I must tend to soon, unfortunately
tight due to your late arrival.”
“Ah yes,” Carey nodded, rubbing the back of his head absentmindedly. “Again, I
apologize for the delay.”
“Not at all. But if you please, time is tight.”
Carey quickly brought his dented and scraped metal case around to his lap,
unlatched it with a few quick turns of the dial, and pulled out a mid-sized envelope
with both hands. It sounded like metal inside. Heavy pieces of metal. He carefully
placed it on Sestak’s desk.
The Director stared at it a moment, but did not move.
“What is it you’re after here, Mr Carey?” he asked.
“A British national living in Prague. Mr Daniels.”
159
“The Zemus fellow,” Sestak said ominously. “Yes, what of him? What’s he done
now?”
“Now, sir?”
Sestak grunted unhappily, swirled his drink.
“He’s an insufferable fool, that one,” he said. “Constantly second-guessing city
policies, sticking his nose where it didn’t belong. Why, once he tried to convince me to
keep the opera house open, despite all indications that it was a major infection point
for the city. He tried to bribe me to keep it open, the fool. Bribes are beneath me.
Offends me to no end when fools think they can buy away my sense of duty.”
Carey nervously glanced at the envelope on the desk.
“So Mr Carey,” Sestak said, leaning back in his chair. “What has he done this time?”
“I’m… not at liberty to discuss the details of his case, sir, as you know. But I can
assure you that his behaviour poses no risk to the city of Prague. Or its citizens.”
Sestak sipped at his scotch again, scratched the tip of his nose with a carefullymanicured nail.
“I’ve already granted you free reign of the city. What more do you need?”
“Well, sir… first of all, I would appreciate if you could convey my status here with
your local police. I had a small mishap earlier which has greatly… um… impeded my
ability to operate.”
“I’m sorry to hear that.”
“Nothing a good night’s sleep and some painkillers won’t help, I’m sure. But if you
could…”
“I will pass along the warning,” Sestak said, jotting down a note on a pad of paper.
“Thank you, Director,” said Carey, genuinely appreciative. “And also, if I may ask…
do you have an address for Mr Daniels on hand? The house we suspected him of
occupying is empty, and I’m afraid I’m running out of leads.”
“You’ve tried the place across the Charles, then?”
Carey sat up straighter.
“No, sir. Do you happen to know the—”
“Indeed I do,” Sestak said, scribbling an address on the bottom of a sheet of paper
and ripping it off for Carey. “Since my secretary passed last year, I’ve found I’ve a better
160
memory than I knew. Send enough bottles of wine to someone, and you remember
their address forever, I suppose.”
Carey got to his feet, hand out to shake, happiness showing through the mask.
Sestak accepted the hand, if hesitantly.
“Thank you, sir,” said Carey. “You have been a very great help to me.”
“It’s my pleasure, Mr Carey,” said Sestak, glancing down at the envelope again.
“Don’t forget your package, please.”
Carey quickly slid the envelope back into his case, snapped it shut and backed
towards the door, bowing like a fool in the presence of royalty. Sestak replaced his glass
on his desk and walked Carey out, patting him on the back jovially.
“One last word of advice, Mr Carey, if I may,” he said as they reached the exit out
into the hall.
“Yes, sir,” said Carey obediently. “Absolutely.”
“I would leave your trip across the Charles until tomorrow. It’s late in the day now,
and with the cold and the summer we endured here… and with your suit looking so
much like…” he trailed off, then smiled. “Well, I can’t imagine you’ll want to be seen
out in the dark dressed like that. For your own safety, naturally.”
Carey barely responded. His voice was small and weak.
“No, sir. Thank you.”
As soon as they opened the door, Sestak’s assistant rushed forward, notepad in
hand, clicking and unclicking his pen as if to punctuate his displeasure at the schedule
being thrown off-kilter. He bowed politely to Carey.
“Sir, if you please… one of our men will help you back to your accommodations.”
Carey was led by the arm down the hall and away. As soon as he was out of earshot,
the assistant began speaking in hushed tones to Sestak as they made their way back
down the hall.
“Was it a good meeting, Director?” he asked.
“Fine enough,” grunted Sestak. “Any news from the Golden Tree apartments? Any
more cases?”
“None reported, sir. I am still getting hourly reports, but it seems limited to the
fourth and tenth floors.”
161
“Excellent. That’s good news. Keep the ventilation shut down, and tell the army to
keep its position until I give the word.”
“And what of the press, sir? They’re asking about the barricade.”
“Tell them nothing for now. I don’t owe them anything. If we start torching — and
that’s if — release a statement detailing the facts. Otherwise, this is just a routine
quarantine. If anyone knew it was Nuremberg, we’d have a riot on our hands, and I
can’t handle one of those right now.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Any further word on the Healer?”
“Scattered reports, sir. Housing complexes in the south, Stadium Eden just
recently. A few deaths, but nothing actionable.”
Sestak growled, checked his hair in the glass of a painting along the wall.
“Call the Chinese ambassador and express my displeasure at civilian deaths in my
city.”
“Yes, sir. Certainly. Should I demand they recall the agent?”
“Gods no, man! Whatever you do, don’t upset them over this. I won’t have Prague
mentioned in the same breath as Kiev, not over a few fools with an inflated sense of
their ability. Nobody burns this city to the ground but me.”
“No, sir. Understood, sir.”
“Oh, and can you please remind the police that they’re to leave the damn Healers
alone. I thought it was well-established, but apparently not. I can’t control the
populace, but law enforcement is supposed to understand the law, at least.”
The assistant touched a hand to his ear, eyes darting left and right. Sestak began
adjusting his jacket sleeves impatiently.
“Is Sobotka on the line yet?” he asked.
The assistant blinked to attention.
“Yes, sir, but if I may… it’s confirmed that both Mr Kopecky and his son have died.”
Sestak stopped dead in his tracks, stared at the floor.
“Damn,” he breathed. “God keep their souls. Who else knows about this?”
“The city bells are tolling, sir. It can’t be long before it’s everywhere.”
162
“Damn and damn again. Prepare a press conference. We have to get ahead of this.
Have Dr Mueller check Ana Kopecky’s blood and get her over here for the cameras. We
need to show the city there’s hope in the face of tragedy.”
“Sir, that’s the other thing,” said the assistant haltingly, “Ana Kopecky… she’s
already here.”
Sestak paused, turned urgently.
“Here? Why?”
“She says she has a message from her brother. A personal message. For you, sir.”
Sestak nodded, loosened his tie and removed his jacket, immediately taking on the
air of a concerned grandfather: caring, compassionate, mourning with the people he
loved.
“She’s in the library?”
“Yes sir,” the assistant said.
Sestak rushed down the hall, dropping his jacket on a chair, and paused outside
the library door.
“Call the Mayor, have him declare it a day of mourning. Help him with the details
if need be. And tell Sobotka I need a progress report when I’m done here. If I’m not
out in ten minutes, remind me of the time.”
“Yes, sir.”
Sestak clicked open the door, stepping into a the dark library, windows sealed shut
and the only lights set to a dim glow, disappearing into the rich stained wood at all
sides. A sheet of clear plastic hung through the middle of the room, sealed to all sides
with thick tape. On the other side of the room, beyond the plastic, was a young woman,
standing facing away from him, breathing softly.
“My dear, I’m so sorry to hear about your brother…”
The woman turned slowly, mask dangling from her face, letter opener gripped
tightly. Sestak jerked back.
“You’re not Ana…” he gasped.
“No,” said Eva gravely. “But you and I still need to talk.”
163
30
PLATNÉŘSKÁ 110, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Sestak took a step back towards the door, eyes wide with fear. Eva pointed the tip
of the letter opener against the plastic sheet between them, pushing slightly, but not
breaking the seal.
“Don’t even think about calling for help,” Eva said.
Sestak eyed the plastic carefully.
“You’re here to kill me?” he asked, defiant.
“I’m here to talk,” Eva said. “But if you give me one hint of trouble, and I’ll cut the
seal and spit in your face.”
He watched the tip, then Eva.
“What are you infected with?”
Her face didn’t twitch.
“Wait and see.”
Sestak exhaled slowly, then nodded and walked to the edge of the room, grabbed
the arm of an old wooden dining chair, and pulled it in front of the plastic. He sat down
carefully, his expression calm, serene almost. He thought a moment, then looked Eva
straight in the eye.
“I suppose you’re Ms Kolikov,” he said.
Eva fought back a twitch in her face, grit her teeth.
“You met my mother,” she said.
“I was under the impression Inspector Sobokta had you contained.”
“I’m not easy to pin down,” Eva replied.
“I’d think not, or they’d have stopped your little killing spree in Germany.”
164
Eva pushed the blade tighter against the plastic. Sestak’s facade faltered, and he
nodded with a controlled anxiety.
“I met your mother, yes.”
“About what?”
He lowered his gaze, licked his lips.
“It’s a complicated subject.”
“Then get talking. Why are the police after her?”
“You should know as well as anyone.”
Eva pushed the letter opener through the first sheet of plastic, and Sestak’s eyes
jumped up. Now the second sheet was being pressured, and Eva’s face was dark with
determination.
“What did you meet about?”
“The last time I saw her was three weeks ago. A routine status update about recent
outbreaks and how to stop them.”
“You… you worked together?”
His eyes narrowed.
“Certainly you know this already.”
“Indulge me.”
“Yes, we worked together,” Sestak said, leaning back in the chair. “Your mother
was our WHO liaison, overseeing the classification and treatment of strains found—”
“Stop stalling. What happened three weeks ago?”
Sestak thought a moment.
“We were discussing a smallpox outbreak in Pardubice,” he said. “A minor affair.
She was reading the report, and her face went white, and she excused herself.”
“What was in the report?”
“Nothing of note. Two hundred casualties, well-contained, and there was no threat
to the city here.”
“You’ve followed up on it?”
“My dear, Pardubice is over one hundred kilometres away. I have enough on my
plate already. I don’t need to be adopting someone else’s troubles.”
“So that’s it? She just left? Then why did you send the police after her?”
165
“The police found their evidence quite independent of me, I’m afraid. If I’d had an
inkling of what she was involved in, I never would have given her access to our
containment practices. My biggest fear is that she can use my own strategies against
me now.”
“She’s not a terrorist.”
“You would say that, wouldn’t you?”
Eva nearly punctured the second sheet. Her grip on the handle was making her
hand shake.
“You think she was behind the outbreak in Pardubice?”
“By the way she reacted, no. She seemed genuinely concerned about it. Which
frankly makes it all the more stunning, knowing what she’d been up to all this—”
“Save your whining for someone who cares. If she didn’t make the virus, who did?”
Sestak folded his hands on his lap, paused a long while.
“When we deconstructed the strain, we saw it was signed by the authors.”
“What, actually signed?”
“In the code, yes. Incidental protein strands. Crude, but effective. They call
themselves ‘ex-facto’, I believe.”
“Are they local?”
“It’s impossible to say. I think your mother suspected they were Russian. She
rambled off something when she read the report.”
“What did she say?”
“I’m afraid I don’t speak the language. All I caught was ‘repa’, but still—”
“Where would she have gone?”
Sestak sat forward, brow wrinkled with bemusement.
“I would think you would know better than anyone,” he said. “Didn’t you have a
plan in case either of you was caught?”
“I keep telling you people! We have nothing to do with this outbreak! I’m an artist
and my mother is a hero! She saves people, she doesn’t kill them!”
He smiled serenely.
“We all have our tipping point,” he said.
166
Eva set her jaw, tightened her grip on the opener, and pushed it through the second
sheet of plastic. Sestak’s body went rigid, pressed back into the chair, and he met her
eyes again. She took a long, slow breath.
“Call off your dogs,” she said. “You’re wasting time hunting us. You’re going to lose
the city, and it will be on your head, not mine.”
He said nothing.
A knock at the door drew both of their gazes. Sestak turned back to Eva, anxious.
Her face betrayed no fear.
“Director?” called the assistant feebly. “Sir, it’s getting to be that time.”
Sestak opened his mouth to speak, but Eva shook her head slowly, twisted the
blade in the plastic so it made a perfect hole. Sweet air rushed from one side to the
other, and the sheets rippled from the change in pressure.
Sestak held his breath, his face twisting in an effort to stay calm.
The assistant knocked again, more urgently this time.
“Director? Is everything okay in there?”
Eva nodded towards the door, a slight smile creeping across her face. Sestak’s teeth
rattled, but his lips stayed sealed, his lungs tightening with pressure.
He doubled over, fighting to control himself, but it was too much. Panic gripped
him, and he bolted from the chair, toppling it, stumbling back towards the door. The
assistant fell back at the sight of his Director collapsing into the hallway on his hands
and knees, sweat pouring down his face. The old man gasped for air, wheezing with
every breath.
“Sir? Sir, what happened?” asked the assistant, peering back into the room. It took
him a moment to see the hole in the plastic, and the absence of the clocksmith’s
daughter.
“It was… Kolikov,” Sestak gasped. “Seal this hallway, quarantine everyone inside.
I want that air tested for everything we know.”
“She… she was infected?” the assistant asked, blanching.
“She said she was. I can’t trust a word she said, but I’m not taking any chances.”
“No sir. Should I have the men detain her before she—”
167
“Leave her. Inform Sobotka, and let her follow the trail. And warn her not to give
the leash so much slack next time.”
* * *
Eva met Pyotr back at the corner a few minutes later, eyes gleaming and a smile so
wide and frantic that he couldn’t help but look worried.
“You made it?” he said in disbelief.
“Not only that, I know where to go next.”
“Wait… you actually saw Sestak? And he told you what you wanted to know?”
“Not intentionally, no. But he mentioned she said the word ‘repa’ last time she was
there.”
“She was talking about Russian turnips? I don’t get it.”
“It’s not turnips. It’s Stepan. Stepan Krejci. An old friend of my parents, back when
I was a toddler. I couldn’t pronounce his name, so I called him Repa, and it stuck. He
must know something about what happened to my mother.”
Pyotr shook his head.
“But even if that were true, how would we find him? We don’t know where he lives,
and there’s no way to find out!”
Eva’s smile got even bigger.
“We’ll look the same place my mother would have: his office in the biology
department at Charles University. He was the head of their epidemiology department.”
168
31
PANSKÁ 12, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
The smooth carpet ran down the length of the main foyer, the floor so shiny the
Healer could almost see his reflection in it. Untouched, as if no one passed the
threshold anymore. Glimmering chandeliers hung on domed ceilings above, the
brightest lights he had seen in many months.
It had been a hotel once, this place, but the front desk was empty, left in pristine
condition by the last employee to leave. There was no building directory, no guest list,
nothing to go by. He started up the polished wooden stairwell, watching his
surroundings closely.
In the corners of some steps were white and yellow flakes, like a strong antiseptic
that wasn’t properly washed away. There were pots of flowers on every fifth step, as if
the smell of daisies could drown out the industrial-strength cleansing. The flowers
were new, so someone had been there recently.
At each door was a camera encased in a dark glass dome. At one room, a brown
paper bag sat outside the door, its bottom stained with some kind of grease. A room at
the far end of the hall had at least two dozen newspapers stacked before it.
By the third floor, the walls were decorated in fine wood panelling, accented with
classic-looking murals. The lighting was all finer, the bulbs all aimed at the ceiling for
a calm, subdued feel. He passed by a large mirror, and paused there, seeing how
foreign he looked.
On the fifth floor, the final change. Down the hallway and on the left was a simple
wooden stool, straddled by a large squarish man in a green military uniform. The man
169
was already watching the Healer as he reached the floor, but he made no move. He just
watched.
The Healer walked slowly down the hallway, but there were no other doors to
check. He stopped a safe distance away from the man, who was still watching him
passively. He had bright orange hair, and his uniform bore no stars, no
commendations, just two simple “U.S.” pins on each lapel, and the name “Shaw” on
his chest.
The two of them stared at each other for quite a while, no movements, as if in the
midst of a duel that neither would admit to.
The Healer slowly, deliberately, reached out a hand and knocked on the door.
Shaw placed a firm grip on the Healer’s forearm and squeezed. His green eyes were
not angry, just professional, and he shook his head slightly, as if his say-so would let
the Healer concede defeat.
The Healer kept his stare at the larger man, and with some strain, knocked on the
door again: one, two, three.
Shaw seemed to grit his teeth at this, maybe amused. Suddenly, he swung the
Healer’s arm down and away, and with the other hand pinned him against the far side
of the enclave, fingers wrapped tightly around the armoured casing on his neck.
The Healer moved fast, grabbing hold of Shaw’s arm, twisting it. The sudden
pressure made Shaw lose his grip, and the Healer pushed the arm down and
backwards, up behind his back.
The man barely reacted to the move, and with his other arm reached back and
grabbed the Healer’s chest. With a bit of a crack in his twisted arm, he heaved strongly
enough to break the Healer’s grip, and threw him across the hall and into one of the
murals that hung there.
The Healer regained his footing quickly, and Shaw cricked his shoulder, grimacing
at the sensation. The Healer made a point to not make any sudden moves, but his
opponent had no such concern: his right hand slid to his side and pulled his pistol from
its holster, swinging it up towards the Healer’s mask.
The Healer was prepared. He side-stepped, grabbed Shaw’s wrist and twisted until
her heard a crack, and then with his other hand caught the falling gun and threw it
170
down the hall. When he looked back up, it was too late to stop Shaw’s fist from hitting
him in the side of the head, and was spun round by the impact.
His suit whined a warning, his heart rate increasing, and he heard a constant
ringing in his ears. He backed up instinctively to give himself room to think. Shaw took
the time to diagnose his wrist, and seemed to write it off, letting that arm hang loose
by his side.
They watched each other for another moment, and then Shaw lunged forward, his
punch missing, and was caught with an armoured elbow to the neck, and then a swift
low kick to the legs that sent him sprawling.
Shaw landed on the crimson carpet and rolled to his back with some difficulty. The
Healer was already turned, ready for more, his cloak swung back and his machete now
clearly visible at his side.
The Healer held out his hand in a warning, and shook his head slowly, but Shaw
was too stubborn or honour-bound to give up. He got to his feet, his knees smarting
from the kick, and pulled himself straight, though his body looked ragged.
The Healer shook his head slowly one more time, keeping his hand out, but
adjusting his stance to be ready for the next move.
Then it came: Shaw grabbed the Healer’s outstretched hand and twisted, pulling
back. It would have worked, but it was predictable, and the Healer spun round, his
elbow finding its mark on Shaw’s nose. There was a loud crack and Shaw gasped, his
grip gave way, and the Healer kicked his feet out from under him again, grabbing his
wrist on the way down and pinning him on the floor with his arm twisted up behind
his back.
Shaw’s nose was bleeding on the carpet, red on red, his breathing rough and
bubbly, but he turned his head enough to see his attacker through bruised eyes. He
said something in a tired but vengeful voice that the Healer didn’t understand — his
English was worse than his German — and then started jerking about, trying to get
loose.
The Healer held him there for a minute, watching him fight uselessly.
With his other hand, the Healer grabbed Shaw by the back of the neck and pulled
him upright, then let go of his arm and let him turn around, limping and wrecked, his
171
face a swollen bloody mess. The Healer stood a safe distance away, machete in his
hand, ready. He pointed down the hall to the stairwell, then his weapon, and left it at
that.
Shaw watched silently; then, after spitting out a pair of teeth, turned around and
slowly creaked down the hall, his stride a sad imitation of pride. The Healer waited
until he was on the stairwell and out of sight before turning his attention to the door.
It took him only a minute to dislodge the handle and push the door open. The room
inside was unlike the rest of the building. It was grey, the blinds drawn with all the
lamps off, and the walls were stark and bare, like a home waiting to be lived in.
There were blankets across all the floors, and a large white sofa oddly-placed in the
middle of the main room, pointed at the windows as if the dirty shafts of light that shot
through were somehow worth watching. At the end of the sofa, the Healer noticed a
pair of socked feet lazily waving from side to side. Dancing to music no one else could
hear.
The Healer took another step forward, and heard a scraping, a metallic grind under
his foot, looked down. It was a spoon, rough and beaten, stained in the middle with a
dark substance, like a makeshift boiler. And there, another spoon. And another, and
mixed in between were used needles. Thin ones at that. The Healer navigated his way
to the sofa, careful to avoid stepping on anything dangerous. There he stopped, looking
down on poor Lewis Kwong.
He was old and exhausted, so thin he almost didn’t look human, and his skin hung
loose on his body, scarred and wrinkled from years of abuse. He was wrapped in a
military jacket, highly decorated, high rank, resting heavy on his frail chest. His left
arm was out of the sleeve, instead resting loose by his side, a tourniquet tied around
the middle, purple pocked veins bulging, waiting for more.
The Healer picked a small packet of white powder off the back of the sofa,
squeezing it gently between gloved fingers. Heroin, probably. He dropped the bag and
rubbed his fingers along the white upholstery.
Kwong opened his eyes slowly, blinking at the weak light to his left, and turned his
gaze to the Healer, pupils flushed wide. He didn’t react, but was watching carefully.
172
The Healer removed his black pouch and placed it on the back of the seat, removed
a vial and put it towards Kwong. With abrupt dexterity, Kwong moved his arm away
and into his jacket, and his eyes narrowed, judging.
He said something in English, and the Healer shook his head to it. He motioned
with his needle, but Kwong rolled himself to his side, and then sat up, wobbling, his
back to the Healer, and exhaled.
“Why you here?” he said in Mandarin, the voice weak and tortured. His accent was
heavy and his words very simple, like a very old child fumbling through the language.
“I not with… use… any illness,” Kwong said.
The Healer paused, seemed to think.
“You may be sick,” he said. “With a deadly disease. I must sample your blood now.”
Kwong shook his head, curled up a bit.
“My sick, all me. My fault.”
“That may be,” said the Healer.
Kwong turned around part-way, eyes narrow and pained, lips trembling with fear
or hurt or self-pity. “Then let me die,” he said, and he meant ‘alone’.
The Healer shook his head gravely, and Kwong winced. The Healer showed him
the needle, the grey display, what must be done.
“I must sample your blood, because you have infected others,” he said slowly,
hoping the meaning would get across. “We cannot cure them without this sample.”
They sat there in silence for a moment.
Kwong turned on the sofa, and put out his arm towards the Healer, and closed his
eyes tightly, as if he’d never had a needle before, and the thought of blood scared him.
The Healer filled a first vial easily, and as he was attaching the second, Kwong spoke,
his eyes still closed.
“Grandfather taught me language,” he said. “I never study big. Wish now I did. So
much to say.”
The Healer waited until the second vial was full and then switched to the third. He
didn’t speak.
“I am alone here, this city,” continued Kwong after a time. “I cannot go home. My
family… I cannot see. Too sick in Europe. All safe at home in America.”
173
The Healer nodded to show he understood.
“I am waiting to die,” Kwong said. “Can you know when?”
The Healer met his imploring eyes as the last of the blood was drawn. He slid it
into his device and let the tests run. As the characters flashed by, he lowered it to his
side, nodding slightly to the old man.
“I sorry for my faults,” he said, on the verge of tears now. “Can you… tell family
about me?”
The Healer didn’t respond, but looked away, then down at his diagnosis. He paged
to the next screen, then back.
“What is it?” Kwong asked, as the Healer was reaching for his blue pouch. Kwong
stood up quickly, spun round to face the Healer, defiant. “What is it?” he said again.
The Healer left his pouch where it was, lowered his hands to his side, bowed.
“You carry a deadly virus,” he said. “If you live, you will kill anyone you see.”
Kwong closed his mouth, gritted his teeth and the Healer could see the muscles in
his jaw clench beneath the sagging skin. He closed his eyes and nodded ever so slightly.
“It is over,” he said.
The Healer nodded, though Kwong did not see it.
The old soldier put his arm out again, a small trickle of blood wrapped round his
elbow from the earlier pricks. He took a long, deep breath, and opened his eyes,
squarely at the Healer.
Then, in an instant, his eyes twitched to the left and back, and the Healer heard the
faint sound of metal grinding behind him; he spun to the side as a loud crack rang out.
Kwong’s chest popped with a gushing red wound, and he stumbled backwards, onto
his knees.
Shaw was standing in the doorway, pistol out, a quick look of shock and regret in
his eyes as he realized what he’d done. The Healer was off-balance, but saw the gun
veer towards him, and ducked down towards the kitchenette behind him.
A searing pain ripped through his shoulder, and he felt the horrible sting of
antiseptic as his suit reacted to a bullet wound. He collapsed back around the corner,
sliding against the wall.
174
Behind the sofa, the life had drained out of Kwong, his eyes glazed over with shock
and confusion, and his mouth swung open and closed a few times before he toppled
backwards onto the floor. Shaw cursed loudly in a stuffed, nasally voice, and the Healer
could hear heavy footsteps as he marched forwards over the spoons and needles. When
the gun peeked beyond the corner, the Healer was gone, a streak of blood against the
wall heading into the kitchen.
Shaw turned himself with his back to the wall, the gun leading him, and slowly
edged towards the opening, following the trail. His breaths were slow and quiet as the
nose of the pistol edged a bit beyond the entranceway…
Before he could make his move, a crunch erupted beside him and his elbow was
crushed by a powerful blow, making his hand spasm and the gun fall from his fingers.
The Healer caught it ably, coming around the corner, right arm loose and useless,
his cloak dark and shiny where the bullet had passed. He left his machete punctured
through both the wall and Shaw’s elbow, holding him hostage.
He paused a moment, watching his prey.
Then, almost cruelly, he shook his head from side to side, and tossed the gun across
the room. The two of them stayed there another moment, the sound of Shaw’s blood
dripping in a pool below him. His breathing was getting ragged and urgent, and he
fought back a scream.
The Healer turned slightly, leaned around the corner into the kitchen, and Shaw
felt a sharp pain as the machete shifted in the wall. He scowled at the Healer, his cheek
twitching involuntarily.
Then, with a jerk, the machete came free from his arm, from the wall, and he had
a moment of levity before the blade swung back around and tore through his bare neck,
and he felt nothing at all.
The Healer paced back from the scene, reaching over the sofa, grabbing his grey
device from beside Kwong’s body. With shaky hands, he paged the screens, back and
forth, pausing at the last: “xFacto Emaciator 1.0”, it read. “3rd Generation Infection”.
He squeezed the device until the plastic creaked in his grip.
175
32
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva and Pyotr walked down the final stretch of road, the stately old building off to
their left casting a weak shadow over the snow. There were tire tracks in the street, but
no other hint of life for as far as they could see. The lights in the building were all off,
the pale facade ominous in the dim wintry afternoon.
They stopped in front, looking up.
“You sure about this?” Pyotr asked, weary.
“We’re close,” Eva said, shivering but calm. “I can feel it.”
They climbed the four steps up to the entrance, a simple set of doors framed in
weathered ochre paint. They were covered by heavy planks, hammered in tight. A
series of warning stickers were plastered across black paint, announcing the facility
was closed until further notice. Another paper, half-ripped away, warned the premises
was quarantined due to an outbreak of Battinger’s.
“This way,” Pyotr called from the right of the doors, where one of the tall windows
had been smashed in, giving them access.
Inside, it was as if the foyer had been spun upside-down somehow. Large, heavy
desks were upturned, chunks of plaster and rock were smashed on the coarse wood
floor. The walls were thick with black mould; most of the old yellow paint was chipped
or simply dissolved. A window somewhere at the back was letting in sunlight, but it
wasn’t nearly enough. The air had the texture of rotting vegetables, even through their
masks.
“You know where his office was?” Pyotr asked.
“No,” admitted Eva. “I didn’t see a building directory either. How should we look?”
176
Pyotr pulled open a door off to the right, nudging some debris out of the way.
“Door by door?” he offered, then lead the way in.
The room was empty. What furniture had been there was stacked in a messy pile
in the far corner, away from the windows. The floor was spotless, despite the dusty
atmosphere, but for that pile. Eva could make out a faintness in the wood floor around
it, like an entire layer of finish had been worn off by something.
“Look at this,” Pyotr said, rubbing a gloved finger down the wall. It was stripped
down to a thin layer of plaster, ripped apart by raw streaks, like thick claws had worked
it away. It was only up near the ceiling that the thickness returned, and with it, the
black mould.
“Somebody hates mould,” Eva said quietly, adjusting her mask. “Let’s keep
moving.”
Down a quiet hallway, past a bulletin board that still had notices about flats for
rent in town, they found a large auditorium, its modern desks ripped and beaten from
their bases, up and to the back of the room. To their right, a drinking fountain lay on
the ceramic floor, a small trickle of water pouring into a neat pool. Again, no sign of
life.
“This is going to take a while,” said Pyotr, surveying the wreckage.
Just then, a shuffle, and some wood fell over, far at the back of the room. Pyotr
moved closer to Eva, shielding her.
“Who’s there?” he called.
Eva’s heart beat loudly in her ears. She reached down to her left, grabbed up the
arm of a destroyed overhead projector, felt its weight. Her sprained wrist screamed out
at her, but she grit her teeth and kept a careful eye on the room.
“Hello?” Pyotr yelled, stood ready.
Then, near the middle of the room, up and away from them, came a waifish girl, no
more than twenty, her eyes dark with exhaustion, hair in filthy streaks down her face.
Her bare arms looked almost blue in the frigid air, and she hugged herself, twitching.
“Are you okay?” Eva asked, starting forward before Pyotr caught her.
177
The girl didn’t seem to see them, started climbing and sliding down and across
desks. She ducked her head underneath one, then reached her arms under, lowered
herself down, out of sight. They heard shifting debris, broken glass.
“What’s going on?” Pyotr called, moving himself and Eva further away from where
the girl had disappeared. “Are you the only one here?”
The girl reached a hand up on top of the desk, put her head half-above the wood,
shifted her gaze left and right, never looking at them. Her lower lip was chewed on and
scabbed, sharp teeth marks red and trickling.
“I can’t find it. Can’t find it,” she said, though not to them. “Can’t find it anywhere.”
“Can’t find what?” Eva asked, looking around.
“My eraser. I had an eraser. I brought it to class. I can’t find it. I swear I brought it,
I know I did!”
Eva and Pyotr exchanged wary glances. Pyotr held a pausing finger up to Eva, then
reached down and began pushing bits of broken wood around as if searching. Eva gave
him a warning look.
“Don’t…” Eva whispered.
“She might talk to us if we’re nice to her…”
“I don’t think—”
“Hey!” interrupted Pyotr with a loud call, “I think I see an eraser here!”
The girl’s eyes shot at them, wide and delirious. Her mouth snarled open, showing
browned and bloody teeth.
“Mine!” she screamed, and leapt, animal-like, down the desks, straight at the
scrambling Pyotr. She threw him against the wall, grabbed at his wrist and started
slamming it against the stonework savagely.
“Let it go! Let it go!” she howled, pushing his other hand away from her, snapping
at it with her wretched mouth. He grunted in pain, trying to force her off, but she was
too wild to stop.
“Hey!” Eva called from behind. “I’ve got your eraser right here!”
The girl turned viciously, throwing Pyotr’s battered hand away. She crept around,
hunched like an animal, trying to circle Eva, who held the projector arm loose by her
side. The girl wiped her mouth with her bare arm, leaving a trail of red to her elbow.
178
“Give me the eraser,” the girl said. “I lost it. It’s mine.”
Eva nodded slowly.
“I’ll give it to you. I will. Just tell me… where is Dr Krejci? Dr Stepan Krejci.”
The girl’s eyes opened wide, then narrowed quickly. She started looking left and
right again, like the prey and not the hunter. She seemed to see Eva again for the first
time, shot through emotions from happy to scared to angry in a second.
“Have you seen my eraser?” she asked, tensing her hands back and forth and back
and forth.
Eva re-gripped the projector arm.
“I’ve got it—” she began, and the girl leapt at her. She was ready: she stepped to the
side, swung the metal underhanded, catching the girl in the stomach. She collapsed to
the ground, coughing wildly, grasping at herself, her chest, wheezing.
“I need to find Dr Krejci,” Eva repeated, colder this time.
The girl looked up at her, eyes narrow and insane.
“I want my eraser!”
She spun around, trying to attack, but Eva hit her across the side of the head,
sending her sliding into the first row of desks. Blood trickled out of her temple as her
eyes rolled back in her head.
“Eva…” Pyotr gasped, running to her side.
“It’s always the same,” Eva growled, throwing the projector arm against the wall.
“Wherever you go, they chip away at your soul, bit by bit. I can’t stand it, Pyotr. I can’t
take it any more…”
Pyotr rubbed her back gently, then picked the discarded metal off the ground. Eva
shook her head at the girl, turned and left the room. Pyotr followed close behind,
checking ahead nervously now.
They came to another room, large and cold, its windows all broken, a thin layer of
snow spread halfway across the floor. All around, atop desks and thrown across chairs,
were the pieces of bodies of five terrorized souls. Their faces were scraped with deep
gashes, their eyes merely bloodied sockets. Arms torn from torsos, some seeming to
have died trying to crawl away as their legs were shredded behind them.
Eva choked back vomit, turned to Pyotr, who braced himself against the wall.
179
“Jesus…” he gasped. “Do you think… she did this?”
Eva couldn’t look back, just shook her head.
“I don’t know. I can’t look. Can you see… is my… my mother in there?”
Pyotr tensed, looked left, right.
“No,” he said. “The two women are too young.”
Eva took a deep breath of processed air.
“Good. Then let’s get out of here. This was a bad mistake. We’ve got to go.”
They were just past the threshold when the banging started: furious, mad
pounding. They paused, half-turned back, and heard it, faintly:
“Hey! Don’t go! Please, you have to help me! Please!”
180
33
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva and Pyotr rushed back into the room, and saw a refrigerated locker, off to the
side… a desperate face calling out to them from a narrow window at the side. They ran
to him, started pulling the door handle, but were stopped by a fierce slam against the
glass.
“No!” shouted the man inside, his cheeks hollow, lips blue. “Please, no. It’s
airborne. I need a mask first. Please tell me you have one.”
Eva looked to Pyotr, who shook his head.
“We only got two,” he said weakly.
The man inside pressed his forehead against the glass, seemed to be weeping. His
fist pounded the glass again, thin and wretched. Eva grabbed the projector arm from
Pyotr, nodded.
“Go back to the storeroom and get another,” she said.
“What?” Pyotr gasped. “Eva, even running that’s going to take me at least ten
minutes! And whatever did that—” he motioned to the shredded bodies, “might come
back and find you!”
Eva swung the projector arm back and forth lightly, smirked.
“I’ll manage.”
“Eva, please… this is insane.”
Eva pointed at the carnage of the room angrily.
“No, that is insane. This here, this is me putting some sanity back into the world.
Go get the mask. I’ll be fine.”
181
Pyotr shook his head at her, but took off into a sprint. She waited until she couldn’t
hear his footsteps anymore, then turned back to the man in the refrigerator. He had
tears in his eyes, was choking back sobs.
“Thank you,” he said loudly, his voice barely passing through the thickness of the
door. “I… I don’t know how long I’ve been in here. I’m so hungry, I can’t even…”
He trailed off, disappeared from view. Eva leaned closer to the glass, tried to see
in.
“Hey! What happened here? How did this happen?”
The man appeared back at the window, looking away from Eva, trembling.
“We made it,” he whimpered. “We all made it, and it killed us.”
“Made what? Who’s ‘us’?”
“The xFacto team,” he said, with an odd mixture of sorrow and pride.
Eva’s mouth dropped open beneath her mask.
“Wait, you’re a virus crew? The same one that made the Pardubice smallpox?”
He nodded.
“Yes, but that was a mistake. We don’t target Czechs.”
“You… what?”
“We… we’re the only ones standing between Russia and the complete genocide of
the Czech race.”
The words were thick with self-important propaganda, and it made her sick. Eva
put a gloved hand to her forehead, turned around.
“This is all you? These people, that girl next door… you made a virus that… that…”
“It breaks down the wall between reality and paranoia,” he said, proud. “It makes
you see things your subconscious dreads. It’s like a living nightmare you can’t wake up
from.”
Eva slammed an angry hand against the glass, and the man recoiled back.
“What kind of idiots are you?”
“We were trying to keep the Russians at bay! If they’re tearing themselves apart,
they’d have to leave us alone! It would save us all!”
“Yeah, until one of them finds out it was you, and launches a counter-attack into
Prague!”
182
“We wouldn’t let that happen!” he boomed defiantly, then collapsed out of view
again, and she heard sobbing. She sat at the other side of the door, her back to the cold
steel, watching the entrance where Pyotr had left.
There was a faint thump from inside the locker.
“It wasn’t supposed to work like that,” he cried. “It wasn’t made to be airborne.”
Eva frowned, looked up at the window. The man was staring out at the room, hand
dragging down the glass slowly.
“The vector was going to be a hospital in St Petersburg. Untraceable, but direct.
Aerosolizing it was never part of the plan. It’s too messy that way.”
“So what, you built it wrong?”
“No,” he sobbed. “There’s no way. Our incubator was broken, didn’t have the
aerosol option in the first place. Believe me, we tried to use it. If it’s airborne, it was
someone else, like that woman.”
“What woman?” Eva asked, getting to her feet quickly and leaning into the door.
“She came here… two days before Siman showed symptoms. She must have done
something… modified the code.”
“What was her name?” Eva asked urgently.
“I don’t know. Some doctor. I don’t know how she knew about us. Kept saying she
was looking for Dr Krejci.”
“Where is he? Dr Krejci, where is he now?”
“He died in the Battinger’s outbreak, before we claimed the building. Did… did you
know him?”
“Used to,” Eva sighed, distant.
“He was a great man. Taught me everything I know. I mean, to a point. I don’t
know how he’d feel about… you know… all this…”
Eva said nothing.
“We put a little tribute to him in all our viruses. A quote, buried with our name:
‘And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.’ He… he
used to write it on the blackboard at the start of each semester.”
Eva pressed her forehead against the door, felt her temples surge with pain.
“That woman, the doctor… what did you do to her?”
183
“Do? Nothing! Rayna was looking to infect her with something, but she took off
before we could. Probably because she’d hacked our code and didn’t want to be near
when things went wrong.”
Eva looked through the window, narrow eyes furious above her mask.
“I wish to god I hadn’t sent Pyotr off to save your life,” she seethed.
“You don’t know me,” he said, eyes darting down to see if the door was opening.
“You don’t have the right to judge me.”
Eva controlled her breathing, kept quiet.
“Once I get out of here,” he seethed. “I’m going to find that fucking bitch and dose
her with everything we ever made. She’ll die so many ways at once they’ll never know
what got her.”
Eva met his eyes, dead and empty.
She unlocked the door with a hiss.
“No!” screamed the man, trying desperately to pull it closed again, but Eva yanked
harder, swinging it all the way out until he collapsed on the ground, covering his mouth
with too-thin hands.
“Go on, hold your breath,” she growled. “I’ve got all the time in the world.”
He flailed about, trying to avoid the air, but it was no use. He dropped to his hands
and knees, squeezing his face up, trying so hard… He reached a frail hand towards her,
trying to grab her shin, but she kicked it away. It was too much, and he gasped a long,
slow breath, and broke into tears, bowing his head against the floor.
Eva watched him, cold eyes blazing, without a word.
Then he started to laugh. He slammed a fist against the ground, staggered to his
feet.
“Fine,” he spat. “Fine, whatever. You got me. Good for you. But I’ve got at least
twelve hours before I’m symptomatic, and that’s plenty of time to find you and slice
you all to pieces.”
Eva cocked her head, then took a swing at his left knee with the metal piping. She
heard a soft crack, and he collapsed sideways, back onto the floor, screaming madly,
clutching his leg as it bent the wrong way. Eva nodded to him.
“Good luck with that.”
184
He roared, flipped to his stomach, buried his face in his hand, panting.
“You’re fucking dead!” he cried.
“No,” she said coldly. “You’re dead. You and your xFacto buddies. You all die here.
That’s the end of it. I’ve had enough of this shit from you people, you and your kind.
Your nightmare virus won’t ever see the light of day, do you hear me?”
He looked up at her with wet, terrible eyes, half-laughing, half-crying.
“It’s too late for that,” he cackled. “The buyer’s already got the package. It’s on its
way to be deployed right now.”
“What?”
“Hell, it might be out there already.”
Eva held the projector arm up like a bat, threatening, adjusting her stance to
dominate him. He didn’t seem to notice; he rolled himself onto his back, staring at the
ceiling, laughing at nothing.
“Who is the buyer?” she demanded.
“Fuck you.”
She swung the bar down onto his shoulder, cracking bone, and he screamed, kept
laughing.
“Who is the buyer?” she yelled.
“Fine… fine, whatever…” he cried. “Have it your way. You’ll never find him. He’s
probably—”
But before he could say another word, a huge menacing form leapt down onto him,
shoving a blood-dried hand around his neck and slamming it down onto the ground
so suddenly it snapped, killing him instantly. Eva backed up quickly, weapon at the
ready, as the monstrous man tore his victim’s eyes out, squeezing them into his pocket,
then stroking the savaged face gently.
“Shh…” he said softly. “Quiet, I found them. They’re safe now.”
His face had a heavy beard, marked with dark red scratches along his cheeks, down
his neck, and all over his bare torso. His cargo pants were so thick with dried blood
they were almost black, and his bare feet were scarred with scabs and open wounds
from all the broken glass around the building.
“What?” he said suddenly, to the air around him. “Again? Where?”
185
He looked down at the body below him, traced a careful line down the shoulder, to
the left arm, and stopped at the elbow.
“No, that won’t do,” he mumbled, then pulled a worn scalpel from his back pocket.
Eva moved back even further, edging towards the door.
“This won’t take a minute,” he said, jabbing at the arm wildly with the scalpel, and
then began screaming as if he were the one being attacked. Eva was nearly at the door,
eyes never leaving the scene, when her heel cracked a bit of glass.
The monster looked up at her suddenly, eyes wide.
She made no move.
“Yes,” he said to the air, but looking straight at her. “Yes, she has ants in her too.”
Eva stumbled further back, ready to fight. He made no move to follow her, just
stared.
“Just stay back,” she warned. “Stay there and everything will be fine.”
His eyes shifted slightly, and it was clear he now saw her fully.
“I’ll get the ants out, and she’ll feel better,” he said, then bounded towards her like
a demonic gorilla, screaming as he made the final approach. It was so terrifying, Eva
nearly missed her chance: she swung at him, hitting his shoulder instead of his head,
sending him back onto the ground, and sending her to her knees from the momentum.
Her wrist burned angrily, and she lost her grip with that hand.
The monster quickly skittered to his feet and ran at her again, and she took off
towards the door, slipping on the glass on the floor, and only just reaching it before he
grabbed at her heel. He pulled, and she flipped over onto her back, dropping the
projector arm. He yanked her back in one, two, three painful lurches. She tried to kick
him off, but he was just too strong.
He straddled her, eyes utterly mad, and licked his lips.
“Those ants must go,” he said serenely, and reached back a bloodied hand.
Then his chest popped open. Once, twice, and the third time he collapsed
backwards into the glass, and Eva covered her ears, ringing from the boom of the
gunshots. She rolled to her chest, looked back, and there at the door was Pyotr,
smoking pistol in his trembling hand.
“I guess you don’t need the mask after all, huh?” he asked.
186
34
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Anouma stopped by Mr Vecera’s bed sometime after ten that night, checked his
chart, and the quantity of Pathenex he had left in his IV. He watched her weakly, a
smile flickering on and off, as if he were confused about his state of mind. She patted
him gently, nodding.
“You are still up, Mr Vecera?” she asked quietly, as most of the other patients in
the hall were asleep now.
He didn’t answer, looked away from her suddenly, then closed his eyes. Anouma
frowned, took out her penlight, turned his head back her way, and checked his pupils.
Fixed and dilated.
“Mr Vecera?” she asked again, calling louder this time. “Mr Vecera, can you hear
me?”
His eyes suddenly fixed on her, and he took a ragged breath.
“My… my granddaughter is drowning…” he gasped.
Anouma checked around herself, and he grabbed her wrist, held it tight.
“You have to help me, doctor. My granddaughter is drowning!”
She rubbed his chest roughly tilted his head, and saw he wasn’t looking at her
anymore. He looked as if he was about to cry, and then his heart monitor started to
whine below the bed.
“Blood pressure rising…” she said to herself. “Mr Vecera! Wake up! Wake up
please!”
He suddenly threw his arms back, sat up fast in bed, and began screaming a loud,
blood-curdling scream, and the other patients began to wake too, whimpering or
187
crying out in fear. Anouma leaned into him with her shoulder, held him down on the
bed.
“I need a sedative!” she yelled as the frail man fought her. “Sedatives and
restraints! Now!”
Two of the nurses on the floor took off, one towards the medicine locker and the
other to help Anouma. She pushed down on Vecera’s right arm with all her strength,
and his body shook up and down, flailing like a fish, as they fought to keep him still.
“Mr Vecera!” Anouma called. “Mr Vecera, everything is all right! You are safe!
Please calm down!”
But he didn’t hear her at all, he kept gasping, rocking up and down, back and forth,
trying to break free.
“Someone save my granddaughter!” he screamed. “What’s wrong with you people?
Hurry!”
The other nurse arrived with a long needle and a pair of long, blue straps. Anouma
tossed one to the nurse, and began to wrap hers around Mr Vecera’s legs. The nurse
did the same for his arms, but he broke free suddenly, clawed out at her, scraping at
her neck. She clutched it quickly, staggering back.
Anouma checked behind her, at the second nurse. She was pushing the meds
already. Mr Vecera started to falter, his motions becoming subdued, and he slowly fell
into a state of muttering semiconsciousness.
“You! Take her and clean out that wound. I want you both on high doses of
Pathenex now. You are off the floor until I say so. Do you understand?”
Both nurses nodded solemnly, headed out, past Dr Bastien, who was rushing down
the aisle towards Anouma. Behind him paced a man in a business suit, heavy mask
over half his head, arms gloved to the elbows. He wore a city badge in his breast pocket.
A bureaucrat.
Bastien checked the heart monitor quickly, the pupils.
“He is altered,” Anouma said. “and I have no idea why.”
“It’s not in the spec for his condition,” Bastien said grimly.
“Dr Bastien,” the bureaucrat interrupted. “Is this Dr Anouma?”
“Not now!” Bastien barked.
188
“Dr Bastien, if you’re trying to interfere with state business, I don’t care how senior
you are in this place, you will be—”
“I said quiet!” Bastien yelled, not turning around. He looked to Anouma, eyes dead
serious.
“What else could it be?” he asked.
“Maybe the Pathenex is having a delayed reaction?” she said.
“Unlikely,” Bastien said. “Has he had any visitors? Someone that might have upset
him?”
Anouma shook her head, thought.
“I do not think he has had any visitors since he arrived here. Maybe it is just… cabin
fever?”
Bastien nodded, looked around the room.
“We should get him upstairs somewhere, so he doesn’t scare the others. Find
Laroche and see what zone he can accommodate a new bed. I’ll—”
Then, several rows away, another patient began convulsing madly, his bed rattling.
“It’s too hot!” came a desperate voice. “Please open the windows, it’s too hot!”
Anouma and Bastien exchanged worried glances, and took off towards the woman
who was shielding her face with her arms. Bastien restrained her while Anouma
checked her pupils.
“Hello?” Anouma called directly into her face. “Hello, can you hear me?”
“It’s so hot! Help me! Help me please!”
Anouma looked to Bastien, who strained against the wild movements.
“What’s going on here?” squeaked the bureaucrat, backing away from them. “Dr
Bastien, I need to know what’s going on!”
“A new infection,” he growled.
“We need more sedatives!” Anouma shouted across the room. “Bring as many as
you can carry!”
The woman was sweating heavily, jerking this way and that, trying to get free.
Bastien risked a hand on her forehead, neck.
“She’s not feverish. She’s hallucinating. What could cause this?”
189
“I don’t know,” Anouma said, searching her memory. “sometimes Battinger’s B
causes sleepwalking, but—”
“This isn’t Battinger’s. God help us, I hope it’s not airborne.”
The bureaucrat took off, scrambling out of the room.
“We need to start everyone on aggressive Pathenex routines,” Anouma said,
checking around. “We must slow it down if we can.”
Bastien swore angrily.
“We’ll run out before we cover the room once over! Dammit, we should have
partitioned the floor better!”
Another nurse arrived with a handful of heavy needles, quickly pushed the sedative
into the woman’s IV. Bastien kept her down until she was safely subdued, when he
heard the gasp of another patient, a few beds over, starting to become aware of a
waking nightmare. He looked to the nurse, Anouma.
“Sedate anyone that shows even the slightest signs,” he said. “Mark the time and
repeat the dosage every hour. I want this controlled until we know what we’re dealing
with.”
The nurse nodded and took off, but Anouma was interrupted by her pager beeping.
She checked it, her face dropping.
“Adjobi…” she gasped. Bastien grabbed the needles from her, nodded.
“Go,” he said sternly. “We’ve got this for now.”
She smiled behind her mask, then ran fast, through the room, to the front stairwell,
and up to Adjobi’s floor. She tore down the hall till she came to his room, skidded
around the corner and stopped cold, eyes wide at the sight of the Healer looming over
her brother. At the sound of her, the Healer swung around, bloodied machete at the
ready, prepared to strike.
“What’s going on?” she gasped.
The Healer put his weapon away, staggered a bit. She saw blood on the back of his
cloak; he tipped to the right as he stood. He held out a vial in a trembling hand, and
shoved Adjobi’s head back against the pillow savagely.
“What is this?” he snarled. “It is not your vector!”
Adjobi shook, terrified, darted pleading eyes between the Healer and Anouma.
190
“I… I don’t know… I thought it—”
“This is a third-generation infection!” the Healer boomed. “You said this man
infected you, and you lied!”
Anouma started forward.
“Please, maybe Adjobi just—”
“Give me one good reason why I should not kill you right now,” he seethed,
ignoring Anouma entirely.
“I… I assumed he was the one,” said Adjobi, a bit of life coming back into him as
he pleaded. “We… we’d shared needles, and…”
Anouma gasped, stepping away from her brother, shocked.
“Adjobi, no…”
“I’m sorry, Fanta. I don’t know what I was thinking, I just…”
The Healer unrolled his blue pouch, pulled out a needle and tested it. Flawless. He
grabbed Adjobi’s arm with his thick bloodstained glove, and turned the veins outward.
“No!” shouted Anouma, and covered the arm, weeping.
“There’s another,” Adjobi said urgently. “There’s another. I didn’t think of it before,
but there’s another.”
The Healer looked at the needle, then seemed to fight with himself, and pulled
away, letting Anouma fall on the bed. Adjobi pulled up, sitting in stunned silence. The
Healer took another step back and gripped the syringe tightly.
“I have no more time for games,” he said to them, and the syringe dropped to the
floor out of weak fingers. He paced forward, Adjobi and Anouma both cowering on the
far side of the bed.
“You will give me the name now,” he said gravely. “Or I will burn you alive.”
They stared at him in shock, at the coldness in his voice, and Adjobi nodded. He
searched about the bed, then started nodding again, feeling up and down his sheets,
the wires attached to his arms swinging up and down like spiny wings on a spry bird.
He found a small scrap of paper and, with trembling hands, held it out for the
Healer.
On it was another name, another address. The Healer slipped it into a pocket, and
with his vision blurring slightly, shook his head.
191
“When you see me next,” he said darkly, “it will be your time to die.”
192
35
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva collapsed on the sofa, pressed her hands to her face. The mask was so tight on
her, and she itched at the edge, groaning. Pyotr rummaged through the pack of
supplies he’d stolen from the depot, took out a half-litre aerosol can.
“Better stand up,” he said, shaking it. “We’ve got to sterilize everything before we
take off these masks. I’m not taking any chances with whatever those nut jobs had.”
Eva sighed, got to her feet, and spread her arms and legs so Pyotr could coat her
with the spray. It tingled as it hit her skin, gave her a second chill, on top of the cold.
When he finished, she sprayed him, careful around his eyes, shut tight.
They stood there, looking at each other.
“Do the room,” he said. “I want to try sleeping without this thing on my face.”
She nodded, proceeded to dose the entire room with antiseptic. He took out a
second can, shook it vigourously, and joined her, doing the undersides and ceilings
where she had trouble reaching. They finished, sweating and out of breath, and
unlatched their masks to breathe in the vile lemony air.
“Home sweet home,” Pyotr smirked.
Eva coughed at the taste. She sat down on the floor, legs crossed, then lay back,
staring out the window, at the stars. The clouds were disappearing, the deep blue sky
shimmering gently.
“So we’re done for the night,” Pyotr said, laying down next to her.
“Where’d you get that gun from anyway?” she asked suddenly. “They give those out
at the food depot?”
193
“No,” he sighed. “Saw a guard leave it at his station when I was heading out, figured
it’d be a good thing to have, given the atmosphere at the university.”
“Good call,” Eva said.
Pyotr yawned loudly.
“So where do we go tomorrow morning? Another insane asylum? Or do you want
to branch out a bit?”
Eva slapped his arm with a friendly hand, laughed.
“I don’t know,” she said, becoming sombre. “That was our only lead. I have no idea
where else to look.”
Pyotr sighed.
“Well, like I said: maybe she’s already left town. If that guy was telling the truth,
maybe she went looking for… whoever that buyer is. Maybe she’s in Russia or
something.”
“Not too likely. She might run into my dad.”
“They’re not close, eh?”
“Let’s put it this way… his sending me to jail wasn’t even close to the biggest reason
they got a divorce.”
“Ouch,” Pyotr nodded appreciatively. “So, if you don’t mind me asking… why’d you
hack a bank anyway? You didn’t get rich off it, I’m guessing.”
Eva winced, turned her head slightly away.
“It wasn’t about the money. Not really, anyway. I mean, I could have moved billions
while I was in there, but that’s not what it was about.”
Pyotr thought a moment.
“So if not money, then what?”
Eva sighed, propped her head up on her arm and faced Pyotr. She was distant,
reminiscing.
“My dad had a bit of a gambling problem. Nothing dramatic, not what you’d expect.
A little here and there, but it was always under control.
“One day, my mother comes home absolutely furious, because the bank had given
her a call, saying they were overdrawn on their joint account. He’d lost a mountain of
money on the wrong bet, and even with everything they had, it wasn’t enough to pay it
194
all off. All he had was this stock in a second-best security firm that was on its way out.
He was scared shitless.”
“So you… you what, you stole the money back or something?”
Eva closed her eyes, shook her head.
“I thought I could fix it. I worked at it and I researched and I found a way into the
bank’s systems through a stupid back door software glitch. Unpatched for years, it
turns out… if they’d looked at things, they would have seen it.
“I got in one night, thought I should just steal a little bit from every account in the
system. Just a tiny bit, and maybe nobody would notice.”
“Not likely. They’d see the pattern right away.”
“Exactly. Even a string of five transfers would probably get traced before I’d logged
off. But that got me thinking… I didn’t need the money, really. I just needed to set
things right. So I wrote a script that did a mad sweep through the accounts, moving
money around. A hundred dollars from one person to another, back and forth, all over
the map. I wasn’t doing anything they couldn’t undo, but when people checked their
balances the next morning, they’d be in for a surprise, one way or another.”
“Mayhem. Got it.”
“The bank had to issue a warning, take massive write-downs after the ‘gifted’
customers spent money they shouldn’t have had. It was all over the news, an
unstoppable scandal. Lawsuits filed, lots of firings. And the company that provided
their security, they got canned right away.”
“Oh hell, you mean—”
“Yeah, the company my dad invested in picked up the pieces, and their stock
surged.”
Pyotr whistled.
“Now that’s some fancy footwork.”
Eva lay back again, covered her face with her crossed arms.
“Not fancy enough. The cops traced me across ten proxy servers, figured out which
internet cafe I’d been in at the time, got a bunch of CCTV footage and nailed me a week
later. I didn’t even get a chance to deny it, they were so sure.
195
“And so I’m sitting there in jail, a fifteen year old girl, desperate for some kind of
news. Anything I can get. And my dad comes in — first time I’ve seen him in weeks —
and I ask him if everything’s okay with money. And he says everything’s fine. And
then… then he says he wants me to confess to the police, because it’s worse for me if I
don’t. And I believed him. I mean, why wouldn’t I?”
Pyotr said nothing, watching Eva speak, her voice trembling.
“He told them to try me as an adult. He basically forced them to try me as an adult.
He took the money I made him, and he took his girlfriend and he moved back to Russia,
and left me to rot in prison.”
“That must have hurt…”
“First six months I was there, it’s all I could think about. I wanted to get out, to find
him and ruin his life. Like completely. I knew I could… there’s so much you know about
your parents you can use if you try. I could have got him in such deep shit with the
wrong people, they never would have found his body.”
She took a long, rattling breath, stared out at the stars again.
“But then he sent me a letter, and it changed things.”
“Changed how?” Pyotr asked gently.
“He told why he’d had them punish me. It wasn’t vindictive or petty or anything
like that. He was afraid for me. He thought, ‘here is this girl I raised, and she’s become
some kind of monster who breaks the law like it means nothing’, and it freaked him
out. He wanted me to be better than I was, and he thought the best way to show me
the right path was to punish me like that. Show me the consequences for breaking the
rules.”
“Mean-fucking-spirited and messed up, Eva,” said Pyotr. “What a bastard. And
wrong.”
Eva shrugged.
“He was wrong,” she said. “But he was right, in a way. Or at least, I think he showed
me something I hadn’t seen. When I’d heard about his money troubles, I thought a
good and reasonable way to deal with that badness was to break the rules, to even the
playing field. It was justified to me. It made sense.
196
“And to him, putting me in prison seemed like a justifiable way to fix a problem. It
was evil, and I know it ruined whatever chance he had of making up with my mother…
but it made sense, you know? He thought it through, and that’s what he felt needed to
be done.”
“That doesn’t make it right,” Pyotr said.
“No, it doesn’t. But it taught me something I hadn’t really seen before: nothing
makes a wrong become right. These viruses, all the suffering they bring, it’s all just
some fool thinking what they’re doing makes sense. And it doesn’t. They took
something good and pure and fantastic and they used it to shit all over humanity.”
They lay there in the dark. Pyotr shrugged.
“See, if you told that to the cops, they might believe you’re not a virus-maker.”
She laughed, wiped a tear from her eye with her sleeve, sniffled.
“The fewer people that know that story, the better, I think,” she said.
“I think you’re wrong,” he said, propping himself up, closer to her. “I think you
hiding that side of yourself, it’s just dumb. I knew you how long in university? And
never once did you mention you had an inkling about computers. I thought you were
all about the painting. Could never figure out why you wanted to hang around with us
geeks.”
She sniffled, smiled.
“I was trying to steal you away from Maselle,” she admitted.
He laughed loudly.
“Are you saying you settled for Rhodri?”
She shrugged, avoided eye contact.
“Sometimes I like to think that was it, yeah.”
They lay there, their faces close, neither saying a word. Pyotr seemed to be thinking
something, took a tentative breath, then smiled.
“We should take Pathenex boosters,” he said, getting to his knees, digging through
the bag from the depot. He pulled out a pair of pill bottles, popped the tops open. He
handed a pair of pills to Eva, and a small bottle of water. His went down quickly.
“What’s the second one for?” she asked, shaking the pair around in her palm.
197
“It’s some kind of emergency immuno-booster, plus the regular Pathenex. Should
fight off whatever random crap may have made it into our systems this afternoon.”
Eva cracked open the water, swallowed both pills ably. She re-capped the bottle
and put it on the floor next to her.
“We should leave first thing tomorrow,” she said, avoiding his eyes. “You’re right.
My mom is probably gone already, and we’re just risking our lives by staying here.
We’ve got to get moving.”
Pyotr nodded.
“I’ll go steal some more supplies tomorrow morning,” he said.
She looked at him, shy, smiled.
“Thank you for everything,” she said. “I wouldn’t have made it this far without
you.”
He shrugged it off, knelt down next to her, rubbed her shoulder gently. She felt so
warm, she closed her eyes and breathed into a sudden wash of tranquility.
“It’s nothing, Eva. Really. And Rhodri—”
“Not Rhodri again…” she warned, pushing his hand away. “I’m so sick of Rhodri…”
He put his hand on her cheek, brushed the hair out of her face, spoke softly.
“I’m not telling you to call Rhodri,” he said. “I was going to say… having spent this
time with you… he was a fool to let you go. You’re worth fighting for.”
She smiled, but it was cut short by a kiss, and she found herself kissing back, harder
and stronger, her arms wrapping round him. She shuddered as he nuzzled her neck,
gripping his back with grasping fingers; and when her shirt came off, his lips on her
flesh, she didn’t feel the cold, but disappeared into a swarm of colours that flowed into
the night.
198
36
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
A capsule sat at the side of the road, perched on three short legs like a metal
grapefruit on a pedestal, a red beacon flashing intermittently on its top. From every
angle, a reflective biohazard symbol warned the curious away. But there were none to
see it this night.
The Healer sat shivering in the cold night-time air. A strap on his shoulder, readjusted round his arm, had stemmed the blood loss, but his arm was numb, hanging
weakly at his side. He kept his other hand over the wound, feebly protecting it from
the elements.
A crisp wind blew across the field beyond, and a swirling mist of snow kicked up
and flew into the moonlight. It was a desolate, evil place, but it was beautiful. The
shades of blue and purple in the sky pulled him up, into sleep, but he shook himself
awake when he felt himself fading.
The phone came alive, but it took a moment before he picked up the handset,
awkwardly pushing the antenna up once more, then let it drop by his side.
“Home to Green Four, what is your status?”
He took a slow, shaky breath before replying, his voice a forced kind of calm.
“Mission is in progress,” he said.
There was another pause. Longer than usual. Longer than necessary.
“Your armour is reporting a breach, Green Four,” came the reply, the tone
somehow sharper.
“A small cut,” he lied. “It has been contained.”
He heard the echo of his own voice in the silence and he looked into the sky.
199
“We are tracking your package,” Home said, then another break, like they were
trying to approach the obvious question with some kind of tact: “LS-411 has been
contained?”
The Healer’s good arm started to tremble.
“The sample is not LS-411,” he said. “A false lead gave me access to a new virus. It
is not part of my current mission, but—”
“Green Four, you must evacuate Prague as soon as possible. If LS-411 cannot be—
”
“I will handle it,” he interrupted, sitting taller. “I have enough time.”
Static. Then, silence.
“You must be out of Prague within twenty-four hours, Green Four.”
“I will be,” he said, slumping a bit.
Static again, and he heard some distant clicking, like typing or a pen tapping or…
he was falling asleep again, woke up with a start.
“Green Four,” Home said. “Your heart rate is quite low.”
He was having trouble keeping his eyes pointed in the same direction, tried
blinking slowly to keep himself in the present, but he was drifting to the right.
“It is cold in Czechia,” he said simply. He tipped over, his elbow catching him on
an angle, and the pain from his shoulder erupted again, making his blurred vision wash
blue, meshing perfectly with the blue in the sky.
“Indeed,” said Home, somewhere in his ears, in between white noise. “You…
mission not… recall… recall…”
“No…”
And then he landed softly in the snow, and the static overwhelmed him.
* * *
He was standing on the banks of the river in the days when a light mask would do,
and the water seemed very clean somehow, and he couldn’t remember if it had ever
been that way. Though he knew all that followed, he still had a sense of wonder, being
so far from home.
“Xiao Li!” called a voice, and it seemed constantly behind him.
200
It was her, that woman. He knew her name, but he couldn’t find it, and as he turned
round he was standing in a dirt field, the metal risers beyond him, his captain high
above them, and he was explaining their commission, their fates. Xiao Li couldn’t
understand the words, but he knew what they meant, and a part of him — a future part
— recoiled in disgust.
And then with a jolt, there he was, assembling the fence with his comrades, in the
dark of night, locking in a city that never knew why. And the fences seemed impossibly
tall to him, and the metal sharp as knives, and he thought he remembered it was so
cruel what they were doing, but that also felt insincere.
And now, again, at the fence, the survivors rushed, their faces so white with fear
when they saw the barricades, the guards, their masks, their horrible lifeless masks,
and Xiao Li was calling out to the others to stay close, hold the line, and he knew he
was firing into the crowd, and he willed his arms to stop, but they were beyond his
control now, and he wished he could die rather than see what came next, but he knew
he must see it again.
And there she was, the girl, the beautiful young girl with the wavy black hair,
watching him, asking him why. And though he tried to look away, he could see her, see
her hair burning, her poor brown eyes asking him why.
But then somehow it was different, and he was still warm, but there were no more
sounds, he heard only breathing. Soft, intense breathing, and he saw her eyes, that
woman; who was she? And she looked at him so closely he almost disappeared into
her, and her lips bit together so wonderfully. He felt her hands on his back, like a
thousand caresses brushing past as one, and dove into her completely, and the
sensation was swirling and wonderful and so wonderful he almost… almost couldn’t…
Couldn’t what? Couldn’t do this, no. He was standing on the border to Russia, his
cloak new and brisk in the spring air, the fresh flowers never penetrating his mask.
And though the sky was a glorious pink, yellow and blue, he never enjoyed it,
remembering how he’d come to be here.
He hadn’t told her he was leaving, had he?
What was her name?
201
And then, from the hospital, that poor wretch and his sister, begging him like the
girl in the fire, their eyes wide with fear. Fearing him, and he feared himself too.
Over and over, Xiao Li couldn’t help but stare, and he felt the coldness overtake
him again, and he wished he could remember the name before he awoke… But he knew
it was too late, that his job was not done, that he still had work to do.
202
NOVEMBER 30
37
KIESLINGSTRAßE 14, NUREMBERG, GERMANY
JULY 3
It was so hot the mask was slipping off her face, slick with sweat, as she sat in the
bedroom, sketching the quiet little house across the street, a massive tree throwing
shadows across the lawn. There was a breeze making the light yellow curtains flutter,
but the summer was impossibly dry and stifling, and the wind carried no relief.
She checked the clock again, waited until she saw a digit change. Two o’clock in the
afternoon, and she was sitting in bed, wearing a tank top and underwear, waiting. The
clock jumped another minute and she put down the sketchbook and the pencil,
lumbered over to the window and peered out over the lazy street below. A bead of sweat
fell off her nose and onto her arm.
Just then, a knock at the door made her jump. She ran to the bed, threw her
artwork to the floor, and sauntered over to the door, placing an inviting hand up the
frame, and creaking it open gradually to give Rhodri a warm welcome.
“Well hello there,” she said in her best sultry voice.
But it wasn’t Rhodri.
“Oh shit!” she spat, and ran back into the room, snatching a thin blanket off the
bed and wrapping herself quickly. The door swung open at the hand of a large and wide
man, heavy muscles bulging through his drenched short-sleeved business shirt.
“Hi,” he said in Russian, smiling in a way that he meant to be embarrassment, but
was something less. “Lookin’ for Rhodri.”
Eva shrugged, moved back around the bed, covering herself more.
“He’s not home yet. But. But he’ll be here any minute, so—”
203
“So I’ll just take a break, thanks,” said the man, and he reached outside and slid a
large cardboard box into the room, closing the door quietly. He pulled a folded
magazine from his back pocket and waved non-existent cool air onto himself.
“You got any lemonade?” he asked, cricking his neck. “Or just water? Anything
cold-like?”
Eva darted a look to the small mini-fridge they had by the window. She smiled
weakly.
“Cold bottled water?”
“Fucking awesome,” he exclaimed.
She made her way over to the fridge, carefully holding the blanket around her, and
pulled open the door. There were two bottles left, and she took the one with the dent
in the side, handed it to the stranger carefully.
“Thanks. You want any?”
She shook her head no.
“Suits me,” he said, and downed the bottle in one go. “I’m Dmitri, by the way.”
Eva was so shocked, she dropped the blanket, had to rush to catch it before it hit
the ground.
“You’re Dmitri? Wow! Oh, sorry, I didn’t know what you… I mean you never…”
“I’m the silent partner, yeah,” he said with a grin. “You oughta get some shorts on
Eva. Gotta be hotter in that blanket than anythin’ else.”
She nodded, backed away, snatched her shorts off the end of the bed, and slipped
into the bathroom. She heard Dmitri tromping around the room, the sound of him
shoving things around on their table, and the cardboard box sliding on.
“So no idea when your boy gets home?” he called to her.
She finished changing, came out into the room, pacing anxiously.
“None at all,” she said. “he’s usually home by twelve-thirty.”
“For your ‘afternoons off’?” Dmitri said with a grin.
“Uh…”
“Yeah, he told me you wanted those. Refused to say why.” He observed her
appreciatively. “But I’ve figured it out, just now.”
She blushed, backed into the other side of the room.
204
“I guess I should thank you for all the help you’ve given us for the last few months,”
she said. “I know Rhodri always says we’d have died of starvation if it weren’t for you.”
“Oh, I don’t know about that,” Dmitri said. “Rhodri’s a pretty smart kid. I’m sure,
between the two of you, you’d have found a way to make ends meet.”
There was something about the last part of the sentence that hung in the air, and
so neither one spoke for a moment.
“So what’s in the box?” Eva asked, trying to lighten things again.
“The usual equipment. Refills.”
“Refills? For websites?”
“Something like that,” he said, tossing the empty bottle to the garbage, a perfect
shot. “You keep in touch with anyone from Italy? Austria?”
Eva shook her head sadly.
“No, I didn’t get to go out much except to sell my art. Didn’t have many clients, and
fewer friends.”
“Read the news much?”
Eva frowned.
“I can’t read German. Can I… why do you ask?”
Dmitri shrugged.
“Things in the news, is all. Don’t worry about it.”
Eva was unsure. Dmitri checked his watch suddenly, wincing.
“Listen, I’ve gotta catch a train soon. Can you make sure Rhodri gets this box as
soon as he gets in?”
“Absolutely,” Eva said, the imminent departure releasing her tension. “I’ll tell him
you stopped by.”
Dmitri nodded.
“Do that. And can you tell him to call me? We need to chat, I think.”
“Of course,” she said.
Dmitri strode to the door, put a hand on the knob, then paused, turned back.
“Say, Eva,” he began, then lay silent for a moment, thinking. “You… you don’t help
ol’ Rhodri out with his work, do you? I mean, when you’re not paintin’ and such?”
205
“No,” Eva said, shaking her head slowly. “Rhodri keeps the work stuff at work, so I
don’t hear much about it. Why?”
Dmitri shrugged, scratched his chin.
“It’s nothing,” he said, his good humour returning. “Just didn’t want him dragging
you into the nuts and bolts, if you know what I mean. Work is work, and home is home,
as you say. I’m just thinkin’ ahead of myself here. Pay no attention.”
He smiled, waved, opened the door.
“See ya later, kid,” he said, then let himself out.
Eva stood there in the empty room, chilled despite the heat, and stared at the
cardboard box on the table. A thin layer of tape held the flaps shut, but it was already
re-sealed once, Eva could tell. She stood over, fingers dancing across the rough brown
surface, thinking.
The door was closed, no sounds from outside. She checked the clock again, then
back to the box.
Carefully, very carefully, she pulled the tape loose.
The first thing she saw was a stack of long and thin boxes, wrapped in words in all
languages, but one leapt out at her: “Incubator Refill”. She took it out, opened it, slid
out one of three long plastic tubes, filled with a milky gelatin, its cap a smooth brass
disc. She ran her finger down the side; it was cold, sterile, vicious.
She dropped it back into the package, closed it carefully, hands shaking. Next to it
was a folder, and inside was a data disc, marked with pen, scratchy and sloppy:
NUREMBERG-A1
CODE AND INSTRUCTIONS
Her mind in a haze, Eva put the disc down on the table, flipped through the papers
in the folder: reams of hex code, instructions in a syntax she didn’t understand… ten
thousand lines of them. She closed them, replaced them in the box gently, and
accidentally toppled over a small container with a bright orange lid.
206
She picked it up, and saw it was filled with a clear liquid. It had the same writing
on it as the disc: Nuremberg-A1.
“You fucker,” she gasped. “What have you done?”
She put the container back into the box, rifled through the rest and came to a red
folder which she tore open, and then staggered back at what she saw. Newspaper
articles, a huge array of them, printed badly, detailing death at the hands of viruses
that had killed thousands. She shivered as she saw the places, the dates… Modena,
Italy; Graz, Austria, Linz…
She turned round, saw the door behind her, saw the clock, saw the bed, and just
stood there, unmoving.
Outside, the first breeze in weeks blew by, and she heard the distant laughter of
children, a dog barking. She looked back at the box, at the orange container, the disc.
She grabbed them up, ran to the dresser, threw it open and pulled out random clothes,
scattershot, throwing them into her old backpack, shoving it full.
She found a framed photo of her and Rhodri, just after Italy, intertwined happily
in the countryside. She threw it against the wall, the glass shattering all over the bed.
At the door, she felt the weight of the orange-topped container in her hand, and
she looked at the bed, the shards there, and down at the poison she held. She wound
up, ready to throw… but then, then she squeezed it, shoved it into her backpack, and
ran out the door and away; never once looking back.
207
38
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva came back to life as the pale light came through the windows and crept across
her face. She rolled to her side, the blankets soft against her skin, the room still warm
as the heaters clicked off. Slowly, her head started to ache, a dull pain right behind her
eyes, and with it, the cold got to her. She slipped on her clothes, let the mask hang loose
around her neck, and ripped open a food packet from the depot the night before.
“Pyotr? You gone to get the stuff?” she asked the open air.
No one replied.
The sky outside was clear for a change, a soulless white and grey, and she wiped
the sleep from her eyes, trying to think straight. She thought she heard water running,
but the kitchen was empty. She shook her head, went back to the living room, stared
out the windows at the street below.
There were no footprints in the snow today, no trace how she and Pyotr had
arrived. A gust of wind blew some trash from the long pile in front of the building. A
yellow plastic biohazard bag, emptied of its deadly burden, floated ominously down
the street.
“Eva,” said a voice, and it wasn’t Pyotr’s. She got to her feet, turned around quickly,
backed to the empty window.
“Who’s there?” she called.
Still, no one replied.
She edged to the kitchen, found a knife in a drawer, and moved back to the window,
keeping her back to the wall at all times. She swore she heard scratching from the far
208
end of the room, but it was impossible… there was no one there. She could see no one
was there.
She checked out the window, back to the clean snow, shuddering.
“Pyotr… please come back… please…”
When she turned back, Rhodri was standing before her.
“Eva,” he said, his eyes raw, skin pale. “You left me…”
She shrieked, held the knife out at him, backed further, but there was nowhere to
go.
“Stay back!” she shouted. “Don’t come any closer!”
He didn’t move his feet, but he reached a poor, wretched hand out to her.
“Why did you leave me, Eva? Why would you leave me there?”
“You’re a monster!” she shouted.
“But we’re in love! You love me!”
“No!” she shouted, swinging the knife at the open air between them, covering her
eyes. “You’re a monster! Just leave me alone!”
When she looked back, the room was empty. Her heart skipped a beat, and she
lowered the knife, eyes darting left and right. The wind blew snow into the room, cold
blades on her face, and she flinched.
“Eva,” said Rhodri from right beside her.
She screamed, swung the knife out, missing by an inch, and scuttled backwards,
into the wall, and then ran full-tilt back to the stairs, slipping and tumbling down them
until she crashed to the floor, the knife sliding away. She made a mad scramble towards
it, grabbing it with her sprained hand, quickly scraping to her knees, and up, down the
hall.
She heard a thump from above, and a scrape, and the light down the stairs was
blocked by a tottering form.
“Eva…” called Rhodri, ghostly. “Eva, we need to talk…”
She raced around the corner, into a back part of the house, and slipped onto her
face at something slick on the floor. Blood. She got to her feet, bracing against the
walls, ran faster, down to a small closet at the end of the hall, pushed inside and curled
into the corner, knife pointing up and out, trembling, fighting off hysteria.
209
“Go away… go away…” she cursed. “Leave me alone, please leave me alone…”
The only light came from a crack in the door, pale yellow, right across her eye. She
reached back into the darkness, found a blanket on the ground, covered herself, trying
to make herself invisible. While she struggled, something fell out of the blanket, hit the
ground with a thump.
She froze, knife pointed at the crack in the door, looked down, up, and down again.
It was a small laptop, lying on the floor, its soft blue sleep light pulsing. She reached a
nervous hand out, turned it over right side up, and lifted the lid.
No sound from the hallway as the computer resumed its previous state. It took a
moment, hummed to itself, and then began showing a flickering video feed, distorted
and grainy. She stared at it a full minute before she realized what she saw…
The room upstairs.
The window, the snow-covered streets, the sofa, the sheets where she’d made love,
the wrapper she dropped on the floor…
Into the shot, stiff and awkward, walked Rhodri. He looked round the room, to the
window, then back to the stairs. And then, very deliberately, he looked straight at her.
She shuddered, threw the computer back against the wall, covered her eyes. When she
looked back, he was gone, but the computer had switched programs, bringing another
to the front.
A browser window, showing a discussion forum. She recognized the colours
instantly, read the banner with a gaping mouth: The University of Paris Alumni
Association. She reached out, pulled the computer closer, touched the trackpad and
scrolled down the page, up again. Notices of births, weddings, so many deaths. “Have
you seen Fréderick?” or “Remembering my dear sweet Anabelle”.
She clicked on one, saw a photo of a girl she’d never known, smiling in her school
colours, with an accounting of her death at the hands of the one of the western plagues.
The smile didn’t fit the words, and Eva closed it quickly to avoid the sight.
And there, at the top of the page, she saw something that tore at her eyes.
RHODRI TENANT READ THIS NOW!
210
Checking the crack in the door, she clicked through, read the short message:
“Rhodri: Loving your girl for you. Love Pytor @ Prague XOXO”. Below was a video clip
on a loop, and she bit back a gasp as she saw herself, naked on the sheets upstairs,
Pyotr over her, moving back and forth in the dim light. She began to shake, tears in her
eyes, hand covering her mouth.
“I’m sorry you had to find out like this,” said Pyotr from the doorway, hands in his
pockets and his face solemn and cold.
“I… I don’t understand…” Eva gasped. “W-why?”
He pushed the door open, further, and she re-gripped the knife, the tip aimed
straight at his heart.
“They’re after Rhodri, Eva. Not you. It was never you. You were just—”
“Bait? You used me as bait?”
“I had to,” he said, not pleading.
“Bullshit,” she spat.
“They gave me no choice! They said if I didn’t get Rhodri to Prague, they’d send me
back!”
“Send you back where?”
“Prison,” he said, dodging her glare. She pulled further back into the closet, kept
darting looks to the hall beside him. “I’ve been locked up since Maselle died. I almost
beat her doctor to death.”
Eva blinked, stunned.
“So all that about… about finding new places to live… you being at the police
station… that was all lies?”
Pyotr nodded meekly, ashamed.
“It was a set-up. They left the door unlocked so we could run into each other, escape
together. Sobotka’s been taking care of us. The pills were her idea.”
“Like throwing me onto my head?”
“Listen, we both freaked out about that. The last thing either of us wanted to do is
have you die over this. Hell, she gave me the gun when she found out about the
university. Hurting you is not what we’re about, Eva.”
“Yeah, not until you get what you want.”
211
He shook his head, sighed.
“I know this won’t count for much, but I… I’m ready to run away with you for real.
They can trace me, but I bet they won’t if we move fast. I got the stuff ready. I was
coming back to get you, to take you away. I was going to get out of here. With you. And
you’d never have to know about any of this.”
She aimed the knife at him, breathing deeply.
“You lied to me. You’re lying to me now. All you want is Rhodri. I’m bait, and that’s
it.”
“Eva, that’s not true! I’d take care of you! Not like Rhodri did. From what I hear,
he’s done some twisted shit, and he’s put you in the middle of it. I’d never risk you. I
wouldn’t launch a major virus strike into my girlfriend’s hometown.”
She narrowed her eyes, got to her feet, back against the wall. Pyotr did the same.
“Rhodri’s behind Prague-1?” she asked, weak.
Pyotr nodded, solemn.
“They think if they can get him here, he won’t launch the strike, and they can arrest
him.”
“So why not just ask me? Ask me to lure him? Why all this?”
He shrugged.
“Frankly, Eva, they’re not sure you’re not working with him. They couldn’t risk it.”
“And you? What do you think?”
He smiled at her, and it was almost like his old self was back again.
“I heard you last night. I know how you feel about all this. I know you’d never kill
innocent people.”
The knife lowered gently, then shot back up. Pyotr kept a safe distance, eyeing her
carefully.
“I just want my mother back,” Eva cried. “I want my mom and I want to get out of
this town and never come back!” Her eyes cleared suddenly, and she stepped forward,
jutting. “What did they do to my mother? Where is she?”
“They don’t know, Eva, I swear. They planted her coat upstairs with Rhodri’s
number to make you call, but they are as much in the dark about that as you. I swear,
none of us know where she is.
212
“Now listen, please. Your plan to escape was a good one. I’m ready to go, and I
know it’ll take time before you really trust me again. But we have to go now, before
Sobotka catches on…”
She didn’t lower the knife, kept checking for Rhodri around the corner. Pyotr
sighed.
“But Eva, really, if you’re not on board for this, I’m still going,” he said, and pulled
the gun from his belt, aiming it squarely at her chest. “So you’re going to have to make
a pretty big choice right now.”
He flicked the safety, shook his head slightly at her. She watched the weapon
anxiously, the knife swaying downward, but not out.
“What’s it going to be?” he said.
Just then, a second gun slid in, pointed at Pyotr’s temple, turned a bit to the side.
Eva gasped when she saw the face beside Pyotr, grim and unflinching.
“Put the gun down,” said Dmitri. “or I paint that wall a nice shade of fucked-up.”
213
39
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
When he awoke, the Healer felt cold; much colder than he should have. He had
trouble seeing in the darkness, but he noticed the brown spines of his tent above him,
and eased back, calm again. There were voices next to him, laughing, happy, speaking
in a language he didn’t understand. He turned his head stiffly towards them, pain
shooting from his shoulder.
Anouma sat close by, smiling and putting beads and jewels in the girl’s hair, which
shone a fiery orange and yellow, but black at the same time. The girl noticed him first,
her expression changing from joy to anxious observation.
Then Anouma looked over, kept her smile, and nodded to him slowly, reassuring.
She reached out to him, but he stopped her, catching her hand in his. Her skin was so
soft, and he caressed her fingertips with his thumb… gentle… gentle…
He felt a sudden panic, jerked upright when he realized: he wasn’t wearing his
gloves! He grasped at his chest, his arms… they were bare… his skin exposed, his body
in the open air… he threw his head back, gasped madly, but the oxygen was tight, and
he flailed against it, fought against it… but then… then the darkness swarmed over him
again.
* * *
Anouma was checking his wound the next time he opened his eyes, her face so close
to his, he had trouble telling if it was another dream. He moved his head slightly, and
she recoiled, scared of him, but not running yet.
214
His shoulder ached with a strange dull pain he couldn’t pinpoint. He tried moving
his arm to feel it, but realized his arms were strapped down… several straps around his
forearms, his thighs and calves. He was trapped. He panicked, started to struggle
against them.
“What are you doing?” he said, his mask making it hard to breathe. “Let me go!”
“You were flailing in your sleep,” she said, pushing a firm hand down on his bare
chest, and it calmed him somewhat. “You had nightmares.”
“They’re done now. Let me go!”
“You said the same thing an hour ago,” she warned, pushing him back. “Lie still or
you will tear the stitches.”
He obeyed, slowing his breathing, laying back again. The straps were tight and
thin, cutting into his skin, but when he relaxed they were much less obtrusive. He
stared up at the tent, the wind blowing it softly, and said nothing.
“You have lost a lot of blood” Anouma said, sliding closer again. “It was a gunshot?”
He nodded slightly.
“Your brother’s fault,” he said. “How did you find me?”
“I followed you as you left the hospital. You did not look well. I was not sure what
I… what I would…”
“I did not see you,” he said, worry strong in his voice.
“I do not think you saw much. You should not be alive, with all that blood loss. The
bullet did not do any major damage, but you will have to stay here for several days.”
“No,” he groaned. “There is no time. I must go by morning…” He checked the sides
of the tent suddenly, back and forth, looking for a crack, for a hint… “What time is it?”
he gasped. “How long have I slept?”
She pushed his chest again, and he stopped fighting, lay back again.
“The sun is still down,” she said. “But it would be foolish to go out there too soon.
You do not know what might—”
“I have a schedule. It cannot wait.”
She nodded, said nothing for a moment.
“Whose mission is it?” she asked. “Are you helping my brother, or yourself?”
He looked away, his arms tensing against the straps.
215
“Neither,” he said, bitterly.
She sighed, reached over and pulled the gauze off his wound, checking it carefully.
He groaned at the contact, but didn’t resist it.
“It does not hurt,” he said.
“That is the morphine. I found it in your pack.”
He stared at her, eyes wide behind his mask.
“What did you touch? What did you touch?”
“As little as possible. And I will keep the morphine, just in case.”
She sat back, pulled a needle from her pocket, stared at it guiltily. It seemed to
weigh more to her than it should have.
“Why are you saving me?” he asked, voice flat.
“I… I do not know if I am, yet,” she whispered.
They sat in silence again, both staring at the needle.
“You must be shot at often,” Anouma muttered.
“People fear me,” he said, his voice stale.
She nodded.
“That is your nature. You bring fear and pain.”
His eyes couldn’t leave the needle. He strained against the straps again, getting
nowhere.
“I do not bring pain,” he said, his temper rising. “The pain came before me.”
She looked at him again, her eyes were narrow, cold.
“Suffering comes before you,” she said, her voice filling with venom. “Death and
agony come too. But you bring pain. You kill their hope when you enter the room.”
“They should not use rooms!” he spat, and her face twitched. “It is cruel and
unfair.”
“Unfair? Unfair to whom?” she snapped. “The patient? or your sacred social
order?”
“Both!” he hissed. “Neither deserve that fate!” He would have grabbed her if he
could, but he was stuck there, a captive, awaiting his execution. His frustration boiled
over: “We warned them. We told them to outlaw the machines before the damage was
too great. They ignored us, and they are paying for their mistakes.”
216
“Those machines did so much good!” she argued. “The cure for AIDS—”
“They denied it to you! You defend them?”
“—many other great things as well! If it had not been for the incubators, where
would humanity be now?”
“Alive!” yelled the Healer. “We would find the same cures, without the damage
done! But their decisions left us with none! All my work, all my sacrifice, undone in a
moment. All because of weak resolve. I will not let that happen. If they will not take
care of themselves, we will do it for them!”
She stared at him, her mouth clenched shut.
“You cannot believe what you have done is right,” she said, and he focused hard to
block the image of fire. “You cannot believe you are not guilty of murder.”
He paused, tried to control himself.
“I am not answerable to you,” he said, and she gripped the syringe tighter, looked
away.
“No…” she said quietly.
He sighed loudly.
“And you? Are you a murderer?”
She met his eyes, then held the needle up before her, turned it slightly, as if
contemplating.
“I cannot tell. Is there such a thing as a necessary evil?”
He rolled his head back, slammed it against the ground, agonizing.
“Stop trying to be a hero! We are all killers, here!”
She shook her head slowly.
“I am not. Not yet. And I cannot tell… if taking one life to save another—”
“The hundredth is the same as the second. Or the first. Be done with it! Whatever
you wish, do it!”
She lowered the needle, but didn’t put it away.
“You are wrong. There is a difference between the one and the many. You are guilty
of far worse, and you know it.”
He barely flinched.
217
“Our hospitals,” he began, quietly at first, “they help broken bones and pregnant
women. Yours are like funeral parlours staffed by doctors. Our children wear masks
for colds, not to survive. You live in a pandemic day after day. To us, it is a distant
nightmare.”
She sneered at him.
“A nightmare black with ashes,” she intoned.
“We made sacrifices. We saw the future and stopped it before it killed us. It hurt
us far more than it hurt you to watch. It was the only way to survive. In eight months,
we were safe; yet you have worked for five years with no progress, no victories. Society
rotting from all sides. We contained our tragedy. You wallow in it.”
She looked at her hands on her lap for a few moments, her fingers unmoving,
curled slightly, and he said nothing, let her be. Her weapon rolled between her palm
and her fingers, gently.
“Society is not the sum of its people,” she said, talking more to herself than to him.
“It is not something you protect at the expense of its parts. You see a man with a
diseased leg, you do not kill him because the effort to save him is too great. You treat
him, you fight for him, you save him and if you cannot, you give him hope in his last
days.”
“Hope is a luxury you cannot afford,” he replied.
“You sound like someone I know,” she sighed.
“The older man? The doctor?”
She nodded.
“He thinks hope is dangerous, too,” she said. “Hope and trust.”
“He has seen things you cannot comprehend.”
“And what about you? How did you deal with those things he saw? You were there,
were you not? You saw what happened there—”
“An entire generation of medical genius, destroyed,” he interrupted.
“By a set of plagues so much simpler than the ones we fight now.”
“He learned from his mistakes,” he said. “Some of them, anyway. We did our best
to contain it. But without the social structures being enforced, it means nothing. Your
218
doctor saw that. Noble intentions count for nothing if you fight a blaze by spitting at
smoke.”
“This is not your battle—”
“It’s not your battle! You are not even from here! What did they say to convince
you to risk your life for them?”
“I could not let them die like this—”
“No? They had no trouble leaving you at the mercy of Tuberculosis, Meningitis,
AIDS… We would never abandon our allies. If we did, we would be alone in the world.”
“You are. You lost the last of your friends the day you set those towns on fire.”
He said nothing, turned his head away.
“You dream of them,” she said, guilty almost. “They haunt you.”
He looked back, tired.
“You know nothing about it.”
She nodded, turned the needle over in her hand again.
“There is enough morphine here to stop your heart,” she said, morose. “And I
cannot think of a reason not to use it.”
She met his eyes — or his goggles — with a sad stare.
“And it is wrong, is it not?” she asked.
He said nothing.
“You would kill my brother,” she said. “You would kill him and anyone else you
choose, all to keep a schedule. A schedule! These are people you are hurting, but they
are just names on a page to you. Another job to finish before the time is up.”
“I have no choice. It is my duty.”
“And what if you fail? What happens if you just refuse? What if you say: ‘Enough
is enough. I will not do it anymore’?”
“That is not my choice,” he sighed. “I cannot stop.”
“Why not?”
“I cannot fail them.”
“Why not?” she yelled.
219
“Because they would send me back home!” he boomed, fighting against the straps
and sending pain shooting down his arm. “They would send me back and I cannot go
back there!”
Neither spoke for a moment.
Finally, she nodded, carefully held the needle to his arm, and he felt the prick, a
warm sensation creeping up and through his body, and he gasped, closing his eyes,
letting it carry him. He felt the straps come loose around his arms, falling to his sides.
The pain slipped away, and he realized… slowly… that he was not dying.
He looked over at her, slow, uncertain, and she shot the rest of the morphine onto
the ground, threw the needle there.
“You do have a choice,” she said to him solemnly.
He said nothing, stayed still, watching her pull her knees up, hugging them gently,
resting her head there, quietly distraught.
“You will save my brother, and you will wipe his disease from the face of the Earth.
And then, when you place another check mark next to your list of accomplishments,
you can make your choice.”
She wiped a tear from her eye with her sleeve, took a shaky breath. Then, he found
himself reaching a hand out, touched her arm, and she didn’t recoil.
“This nightmare,” he said softly, “it ruins your soul.”
She choked on a sob, shook her head.
“My soul is broken already,” she said. “I have blood on my hands. Each one of the
lives you will take today, those are all my fault. I could have stopped you here, tonight,
but I refused.”
She looked at him, eyes full.
“I am not scared of hell,” she said. “I am terrified of the company I will have to keep
there.”
220
40
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva landed on the floor next to Pyotr as Dmitri paced in behind them, cracking his
knuckles. He stood in front of the door, feet apart, ready to keep the peace inside the
small, white-tiled room. A simple metal desk and two chairs sat along one wall, three
drops of red beneath them, stark against the overwhelming white.
“Now then,” Dmitri said, twitching his mask side to side. “Let’s get you two sorted.
Eva, I know. Hi, Eva.”
She said nothing, pulled herself into a ball and watched him.
“But this joker, all I know about him is that he was pointin’ a gun when I first saw
him. Which, at least in my books, isn’t the proper way to treat a lady.”
Dmitri winked at Eva, but she ignored it.
“I’m her b-b-boyfriend…” Pytor said, and Eva just laughed.
“I can think of at least two people who’d say otherwise,” chuckled Dmitri.
Eva’s mouth dropped open and she remembered…
“Where’s Rhodri?” she demanded, getting to her knees now. “What’s going on?”
Dmitri shrugged at her, scratched his cheek.
“You tell me,” he said. “I haven’t seen Rhodri in… well, longer than you, I think.
You passed along my message that time?”
“Not exactly.”
“Figures. Well whatever happened, he ain’t here.”
“But I saw him! Back at the building! He was chasing me!”
Dmitri cocked an eyebrow at her, glanced to Pyotr for confirmation, but Pyotr
seemed just as confused. Eva was running her hands through her hair, trembling.
221
“Eva, kid, if he’d been there, I would’ve seen him, believe me.”
She shook her head anxiously.
“I saw him. I know I did. He’s here, in Prague. He’s looking for me.”
Just then, there was a quick knock at the door, and it opened, slow and creaking.
The light from the hallway was musty and almost grey, but the silhouette there was
unmistakable. Eva screamed, backed behind Pytor, pointing madly.
“Liar! Liar! He’s here!”
Rhodri stood in the doorway, arms crossed, head shaking sadly. He was wearing a
black suit, no tie, but his hair was a mess as always, his beard looking sickly and
crusted.
“Eva,” he said solemnly. “You shouldn’t have run…”
She wailed, backed into the corner, covering her head with her arms. She felt strong
hands pulling at her, and she fought and kicked, trying to keep them off, keep the smell
of him away…
Suddenly, she was thrown onto the ground, on her back, hands holding her arms
at her sides, someone else pinning her legs down. She heard them talking, but she
refused to open her eyes for them, weaving her head from side to side, as if she could
escape by sheer force of thought.
“Eva, look at me,” said Rhodri.
“Eva, look at me,” said Dmitri.
“She’s… too… strong…” grunted Pyotr.
She pushed with all her strength, kicked Pyotr off her legs, and he slammed into
the wall. She twisted and fought, wrestling against impossible odds… but then she felt
a tight, strong hand around her neck, squeezing slightly, and she lay still, refusing to
open her eyes.
“Kill her, Dmitri,” Rhodri said. “She betrayed me.”
She cried, tried to swat him away, but he tightened his hold.
“I’m sorry, Rhodri…” she stammered. “I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean it…”
The hand on her neck eased up slightly, and she took a ragged breath.
“What the hell is she…?” Dmitri said, his voice distant.
“Shit…” gasped Pytor. “She’s infected. She must be infected!”
222
“With what?” growled Dmitri.
“I… I don’t know. It drives you insane, whatever it is, and—”
“Eva,” whispered Rhodri in her ear. “Eva, why won’t you kiss me anymore?”
She felt a cold hand run down her neck, her chest, and slip against her bare waist,
sending a chill up her spine. She kicked out, missing him, and he ran his fingers up
along her side, gentle, probing.
“Stop it!” she screamed. “Stop touching me! I hate you!”
“Did you give her a Pathenex stopper?” Dmitri said, fading into the distance, while
his hand was still on her neck.
“H-h-half of it,” Pyotr admitted. “I used Tezocet for the second pill.”
“Are you a fucking moron? That’s a hallucinogen on its own, not to mention the
immuno-suppression she must have going on!”
“I… I needed her asleep… I didn’t mean to…”
“Oh Eva,” whispered Rhodri in her ear. “What did you do? Did you fuck him? Did
you betray me?”
“No,” Eva gasped. “No, I’d never…”
“I saw you,” he breathed. “I saw it all. And I think you liked it.”
The hand around her neck loosened again, and she flailed her arms around, hitting
Dmitri, his stubbled cheek, but missing Rhodri every time. Dmitri knelt on her hurt
wrist, and she cried in pain, pushing her other hand against her forehead, weeping
uncontrollably.
She heard the sounds of the door opening, quick footsteps, the clink of plastic on
the ground. A light prick on her arm, just about the elastic brace, and then a cold,
metallic sensation flooding her veins.
“You’ll like this,” Rhodri whispered to her, his hand brushing the side of her breast.
“I made it specially for you.”
“Murderer!” she screamed, and had her head pushed back against the floor,
smelled onions, cologne.
“Eva,” said Dmitri, loud and clear. “Eva, it’s all in your head. I know you know that,
and I need you to focus. It’s all in your head. Rhodri isn’t here. It’s just me and the
fucktard. Nobody else is here, I promise you.”
223
Eva slowed her breathing, felt the depth come back to the room, the sounds less
threatening, and her heart rate slow. She didn’t open her eyes, but stopped crying.
“Y-y-you promise?” she whimpered.
“I do, Eva. Open your eyes. It’ll be okay.”
“I can’t…” she pleaded. “I can’t, I can’t…”
“You can,” Dmitri told her.
“I can’t. He’ll be there. I can’t see him. Please.”
“He’s not here, Eva. You know that. You know this disease. You know how it works.
Think past it, kid. It makes sense if you think past it.”
Eva stopped breathing, listened. She heard two sets of breaths, two sets of clothes
moving, two souls around her. She exhaled slowly, cautiously.
And she opened her eyes.
“All good?” Dmitri asked her gently.
It was him, and only him. No one else. No Rhodri.
She nodded, faintly, and he let her go. She sat herself up, rubbing her neck, taking
stuttering breaths. Pyotr lay against the far wall, white as a ghost, and the rest of the
room was empty. There was no Rhodri.
Dmitri patted her knee, got to his feet.
“That shot should keep you stable for an hour or two,” he said, dusting off his
trousers. “But if you start to see anything else odd in the room, let me know, okay?”
“Okay,” Eva nodded, catching her breath. “What did you give me?”
“A little cocktail we made that seems to suppress the symptoms,” Dmitri replied.
“Temporarily. And never as far as we’d like.”
“What do you—”
“I’m at a loss about what to do with your boy toy here,” Dmitri interrupted, darting
a mean glare at Pyotr. “Cause as I see it, he’s lied to you, he’s denied you vital drugs at
a critical time, he’s given you what might charitably be called a date rape drug—”
“It was for her head! She was in pain!”
“Yeah, and my gun’s primarily for pistol-whipping. Shut your hole. It’s not your
turn to talk.”
224
He turned back to Eva, then pulled his gun from within his jacket, dropped the
safety, and pointed it at Pyotr.
“Eva,” Dmitri said, business-like. “I don’t know what happened after he gave you
that pill, and I don’t wanna know. But since you and Rhodri were like family, I’m gonna
give you this choice. How’s he going to leave the room? Cause I’m fine with either way.”
Eva saw Pyotr, cowering in the corner, looking at her with pleading, desperate eyes.
She rubbed her bandaged hand across her head, tried to think through the pain, the
confusion. Pyotr said nothing, but mouthed words to her that she couldn’t understand.
Things she didn’t care to understand.
She shook her head, turned away.
“No more killing,” she sighed. “Just get him out of here.”
Dmitri looked to Eva, paused. Pyotr was trembling. Dmitri put his gun away, paced
to Pyotr and yanked him to his feet, dragged him to the door.
“Eva, wait!” Pyotr cried as he was forced against the wall as the door opened and
two large men in black suits came in. “Please! They’ll put me back in! Please don’t do
this! We can still get away! It wasn’t all an act! It wasn’t all fake—”
The door closed and Dmitri turned to Eva, his hands in his pockets, sighed.
“‘Wasn’t all fake’, he says,” Dmitri mused. “’s what my ex wife used to say.”
He smirked at his own joke, coughed and pulled a chair from the table, offering it
to Eva. She sat, tentative, and he hopped up on the table itself, lounging comfortably
in the cold, sterile room.
“So you feeling okay?” he asked her. “Just you and me in here now?”
She nodded, checked around just to be sure.
“Good. Cause what I need you to do, I need you to focus on.”
Eva frowned.
“What do you need me to do?”
“What you’ve got, Eva, we know it. It’s called Nuremberg-6. It’s nastier than you
know. And the kicker is, it’s infected some of our people. We didn’t see the signs until
it was pretty far advanced, and we’ve been fighting to contain it ever since.”
Eva scowled at him.
“How’s this my problem?”
225
“It’s your problem because the same things that’re happening to them, they’re
happening to you too. We don’t know what its end-stage is, but we’re not keen to find
out. We want it fixed, and we want it fixed now.”
“So what, you want to test the cures on me? I’m your guinea pig?”
He laughed, patted her shoulder, but she swatted him away.
“Hell no, Eva. See, our regular programmer has gone missing. I think you know
him.”
She scowled.
“Yeah,” Dmitri continued. “And without him, we’re kinda screwed. Or we were
screwed, until you showed up.”
“I keep telling people: I don’t know how to make viruses. And even if I did, I
wouldn’t help you.”
Dmitri gave her a dead look, scratched his chin under his mask.
“Even if it means you go bat shit crazy?”
Eva shuddered, remembering the sound of Rhodri in her ear. But she shook her
head.
“I won’t lift a finger to help you. You’re all murderers.”
Dmitri sighed, slapped his knees and got up off the table, leaving Eva sitting there,
alone.
“Fine,” he said. “I kinda thought you’d say that.”
He opened the door, leaned out and motioned, then looked back to Eva, shaking
his head.
“I get that you don’t want to help me. You don’t know me. If I asked myself for this
kind of help, I’d probably have trouble resolving to pitch in, too. But you don’t need to
do it for me. Or for you. On the other hand, you may want to do it for somebody else.”
“You can all fucking die for all I care,” she spat.
“Even her?” Dmitri asked, as a stretcher wheeled in, carrying Eva’s mother.
226
41
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
“Mama!” Eva gasped, running. She grabbed her mother’s shoulders tightly,
brushed her hair back, held back tears.
Her mother stared blankly at the ceiling, her face aged, worn, and two long cuts on
her cheeks half-healed. An IV strung up and out of her arm, saline dripping in like a
heartbeat. She was restrained, but she made no move to escape, and at once, Eva
started fighting with the straps, trying to undo them, let her free.
A large hand wrapped around hers.
“You don’t want to do that,” Dmitri said. “She doesn’t do well when she’s free.”
Eva held her mother’s hand gently, stroked it.
“What did you do to her?” she whispered.
“She’s got what you’ve got, but it’s much worse. We gave her one of those cocktails
about twenty minutes ago, and this… this is as good as it gets with her. She’s not really
conscious unless she’s full-on sick, and that’s not a pleasant place for her to be.
“I know you don’t trust us, that you don’t want to help us… but Eva, babe, if you
don’t fix this thing for us, this is going to be you in three weeks. This, or worse.”
Eva saw two suited men carrying in an incubator, setting it on the table and
plugging it in. She looked back to her mother, rested her head against the blank,
scarred face.
“I don’t know how to do it,” she cried softly.
“You keep sayin’ that, and it sounds just like Rhodri, back at the start. But he picked
it up real fast. And from what I hear, he wasn’t half the bright one that you are.”
227
“Don’t these incubators have some kind of… automated system? Something more
reliable than human trial-and-error? Anything else?”
“Could be,” sniffed Dmitri. “Might be a software patch somewhere I don’t know
about since the manufacturers have all been out of business for years!”
Eva looked to the incubator, eyes shot with tears.
“What if I screw it up? You really want to take that chance?”
Dmitri punched the incubator on, the screen flickering to life. He dusted off her
chair, turned it.
“Give it a go, let me know what you think.”
He nodded to her, and she reluctantly sat on the chair, touched the trackpad and
began investigating the incubator’s software. A large, simple window opened, happily
showing a stylized molecule, and welcomed her to the world of personalized bioengineering. A small alert flashed before her, giving her the “Tip of the Day”:
THE RESULTS PANE AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN SHOWS YOU THE OUTCOME OF YOUR
WORK AGAINST THE MOST COMMON BLOOD SAMPLES FOR YOUR GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION. TO
TEST AGAINST OTHER LOCALES, PLEASE CHOOSE “EDIT LOCALE…” UNDER THE “PROFILES”
MENU.
She clicked “dismiss”, got a lay of the land. Dmitri reached a finger in, pushed the
screen as he talked.
“I’m no genius, but what Rhodri told me is this: You load in a blood sample here,
and it does up a nice doodle of what the virus looks like. So let’s give this a go, load up
one of the samples we’ve got.”
He swatted her hands off the trackpad, navigated a few menus until a complex
string of different-coloured rectangles filled the middle pane of the screen, faux-glossy
and inviting, like a children’s puzzle game and not a matter of life or death.
“You seem pretty good at this,” Eva remarked. “Why don’t you find the cure
yourself?”
Dmitri smirked.
“Just cause I can print, don’t mean I can write. Look here… left side, this is your
toolset. There are, what, about a hundred different things you can drag around and
228
slap together. Me, I don’t know shit about this, so I just make the prettiest little chain
I can figure. So let’s try the red square, the blue diamond, and the… yellow
whatsitcalled.”
“Trapezoid.”
“Bless you. Now see…”
Dmitri demonstrated his new creation in the top pane, the background a calm sea
blue with animated bubbles creeping up. Almost pleasant. Eva sighed at it all.
“Now we hit this button here… ‘test’… and…”
Dmitri’s structure melded itself together, grew stems connecting some elements,
and then a set of arrows appeared between the top and middle panes, suggesting the
application of the first to the second. After a moment or two, new shapes and colours
fell from the middle pane into the bottom, and the window’s frame turned red. A
warning flashed on the side of the screen:
4 ALERTS REPORTED:
PATIENT DIES OF MASSIVE INTERNAL HAEMORRHAGING;
PATIENT SUFFERS SEVERE STROKE;
PATIENT MAY EXPERIENCE VISION LOSS;
PATIENT MAY EXHIBIT RASH.
Eva cocked an eyebrow, and Dmitri sighed.
“Believe it or not, this is better than usual. Last time it told me I’d successfully
constructed Ebola. That was a good day, let me tell you.”
Eva shook her head, hit the ‘clear’ button and Dmitri’s creation disappeared. She
pointed at the toolset, scrolling down the list, incredulous.
“I don’t know why you thought I’d be good at this,” she said. “This is a stupidly
complex program to figure out. Look at all these things… I don’t know what even a
fraction of these mean!”
229
“The incubators were made for pharmacists, I think. They kind of assume you
know a bit about medicine or something.”
“Which I don’t.”
“But neither did Rhodri. And what he told me… he said the only things you really
need to worry about are the first twenty shapes. The rest are compounds, and you can
live without ‘em. He said that when you really get down to it, this is like any other
program. Forget about the molecules or the blood samples or any of that crap, and just
treat it like what you know.”
Eva shook her head sadly.
“I’ll screw it up,” she said.
“Then it’ll tell you. And you start over. It doesn’t require skill, it just requires a
brain that can think a certain way. And yours does that.”
Eva sighed, moved a red square over to the compound in the middle, and watched
part of the structure crumble.
“Hey cool, real-time,” exclaimed Dmitri. “Didn’t know you could do that! See?
You’re a natural!”
Eva slammed her fist down on the desk, turned on Dmitri.
“What happened with Rhodri?” she demanded. “He was good! He was good, and
somehow you corrupted him, made him do this! What in the hell did you do to him?”
Dmitri placed a heavy hand on Eva’s shoulder.
“Less chatter. More working. We don’t have all day here. You’re due to start flaking
out in ninety-some minutes, and I don’t have an infinite supply of that cocktail if I’m
feeding three people at once.”
Eva hesitated, as if she might refuse, but then slowly turned back to the incubator,
put her hands on the trackpad, and began to work. Dmitri leaned back in his chair,
staring at the ceiling, arms behind his head.
Eva began by figuring out the effect of each shape in her palette. The red squares
chipped away at certain parts of Nuremberg-6, but left other by-products behind. The
yellow circles helped with others, but again, let dangerous elements fall. She tried
pairing a red square with a yellow circle, and it did eat up most of the usual suspects,
but then it left a shower of purple squares that did more damage than anything before.
230
After some work, she found a way to embed a trio of shapes inside a container,
which was attached as a subset of another element. This one lead to no fall-out, but it
made Nuremberg-6 split in two, each piece much more immediately dangerous than
mere delirium. She made a more complex compound, creating depths and depths of
embedded elements, trying to catch every bit, stop them from falling into the bottom
of the screen.
Dmitri watched her work, held his breath every time the machine processed
results, sighed quietly every time it returned a death sentence. He didn’t speak a word,
just sat beside her, observing.
Eventually the compound was too big to fit on the screen, and she scrapped it all,
starting with a single purple circle, and built more streamlined functions around the
core. The results were discouraging, but after a while, she started to see a pattern
emerging… she clasped her hands together, leaned back from the table.
“What?” Dmitri asked, waking from a stupor. “What’s wrong? What happened?”
“I’m close, I think,” Eva said, eyes fixed on the shapes. “I think this is close.”
“You’ve got four big chunks of it that kill the patient more ways than I can count,”
he complained. “I think you and me have different definitions of ‘close’.”
“Ignore that. Look at how it works… I’m breaking it up so this red, this blue… see?
They don’t stay together. They were causing the strokes. I’m splitting it up so the worst
parts don’t survive. Then all I need to do is beat those four compounds, and… and…”
“And we’ve got a cure?” Dmitri said, hopeful.
“I don’t know. But it’s the best I’ve got right now.”
“Eva!” called her mother suddenly, seizing up, trying to escape her restraints.
Dmitri and Eva ran to her side; he tightened the straps while Eva stroked her hair.
“Mama? Mama, can you hear me?”
“Eva! Someone find Eva! She’s all alone in the bath!”
Her mother wasn’t looking at her at all, she was in her own world, and it made Eva
shiver to remember the feeling. Dmitri checked her IV, shook his head.
“She’s coming out of it early. We need another cocktail.”
“Somebody help me! She might have drowned! Someone please give me a ride
home before she drowns!”
231
Eva turned away, back to the incubator. Dmitri opened the door, leaned out,
frowning. The hall was empty. He took his phone from his jacket, hit a button.
“Where is everyone?” he barked in heavily-accented English. “We need another…”
He trailed off, listening, then nodded.
“Be right there. Somebody get a new cocktail down to Kolikov. I’m locking them
in.”
He looked back to Eva, the door half-closed. She darted nervous glances between
him and her mother, who was starting to fight harder against her restraints, crying at
the imagined fear of losing a child.
“Sit tight,” Dmitri said. “I’ll be back as soon as I can. Just concentrate on the virus
and ignore her, got it?”
He didn’t wait for an answer, just ran out the door, locking it behind him.
Eva took her mother’s strapped hand in hers, stroked it warmly.
“Mama, I’m here. It’s Eva.”
“Eva, my baby!” her mother screamed. “She’s drowning, my baby! Why did he leave
her alone like that?”
“It’ll be okay, mama. I’m going to take care of it.”
Eva threw herself back at the incubator, dragging shapes in and out of the
structure, breaking bits, shattering structures, cutting away at the most deadly bits. Six
warnings, five warnings, four, and three… she had the thing on the ropes, but it kept
tossing out surprises, things she couldn’t decipher. She slammed her hand against the
desk, furious, and her mother whimpered.
“Die, damn you. Just die…” she sighed, lowering her head. Warm hands wrapped
over her shoulders, began to massage her tense muscles. She sighed happily, nodded.
“Feels good,” she said, looking back at the screen as the hands kept working.
She drew down another compound, tried it, and it worked. She gasped, elated, and
began to fight off the last two survivors of Nuremberg-6: fatal stroke and fatal fever.
She tossed shapes across the screen with amazing dexterity, the stress melting from
her body, her hands feeling warm for the first time in days…
“I’ve got you now,” she growled to the virus.
232
Strong arms wrapped around her shoulders, but she kept working, taking their
energy and using it. She felt breath on her neck, then the brush of beard, and a kiss on
her ear. She shivered, closed her eyes a moment, just a moment, let the kiss linger.
“You miss me,” whispered Rhodri softly.
“I miss you,” Eva replied.
A hand slid up, up around her neck, caressing her, fingers touching her lips. She
held her breath, her hands falling away from the trackpad, touched the arms, held
them there, turning her head to him, desperate, desperate…
“You need me,” Rhodri whispered.
“I do. I need you,” she answered.
“Then why,” he breathed, his mouth close to hers. “Why did you leave me?”
The hand at her neck tightened suddenly, fingers digging sharp into her skin, and
she convulsed, but he held her tight in his arms, keeping her there, locked in a killing
embrace, and he dug his nails into her skin, dragging up and down, then moved gently
to her ear, beard rough and scratching.
“You should have stayed,” he growled.
Eva trembled, her head up and her neck exposed, and she tried to see behind her,
tried to see him.
“You’re not real,” she cried. “You’re not here. Dmitri locked the door.”
“I have a key,” he hissed. “You can’t keep me out.”
“You don’t have a key. This is the virus. You’re not here.”
He laughed at her, moved around to her other side, still holding her tight, and bit
the edge of her ear.
“If I weren’t real,” he said. “Then how could I do this?”
She felt her neck released, and a sharp burn shot across her cheek. She grabbed at
it, felt the sting, checked her fingertips and saw blood. She gasped, squeezed her hand
into a fist.
“Why would you leave me?” Rhodri asked, moving back to her other side, his hand
tracing down her face, her neck, like a lover’s caress, but evil.
“You know why,” she spat. “It’s this. This and all those other viruses you made.”
He laughed, nuzzled close to her neck.
233
“You know I made them because of you,” he whispered. “I dreamed them up while
we made love.”
She shook her head, but he grabbed it, held it steady.
“You were my greatest inspiration,” he sang almost. “My muse. You made these
viruses. They’re yours.”
Eva’s hands hit the table, the trackpad, and then her eyes opened, but narrow.
“I didn’t make them,” she said cooly. “But I will destroy them. Just try and stop
me.”
She looked forward, despite his hands, reached hers to the trackpad and moved
the blocks around, shifting at a furious pace; breaking compounds, catching fall-out…
Rhodri couldn’t stop her, his arms unable to shift her determination, his hands
stroking her body top to bottom, trying to dislodge her concentration… She fought past
it, fixing errors and finally, finally, leaving the cure with only one side-effect.
“Fatal stroke,” Rhodri laughed, kissing her neck. “You’ll never beat me, Eva. You
never could.”
“You never saw what I can do,” she said, and drew a yellow rectangle over the last
compound, hanging it over, pausing. Her mother sang a quiet lullaby, Rhodri licked
her jaw sweetly, and she… she let the last piece fall.
The bottom pane glowed green, ran a notice saying: “Minor side-effects: raised
blood pressure”. Eva gasped, shoved back from the table, hands in the air.
“I did it!” she exclaimed, and her mother laughed out at the same time, but for
unknown reasons. She hit the ‘save’ button, then another marked ‘process’, and she
saw a vial of serum in the incubator’s central chamber slide into place and start to
churn slowly. She pressed her palms to her eyes, holding back a laugh of joy, listening
as the cure was made.
When she opened her eyes again, Rhodri was right before her, scowling.
“You bitch!” he screamed, and grabbed her head with both hands, scraping at her.
She kicked and pushed and fell back off the chair, scrambling back to the wall, and
Rhodri stormed her, grabbing at her legs, pulling her towards him, psychotic and
maniacal and so unfamiliar all she could was scream.
234
The door burst open suddenly, and Dmitri was there, flanked by two guards. He
looked to Eva’s mother, crying in her stretcher, and then down to Eva, and in a flash
he shot across the room, needle at the ready, and pushed her down onto her side,
jabbing the point into her arm, and she felt it, felt the rush again…
“He came back,” she gasped, face ground into the tile. “He came back. You said I
had hours. What… what happened?”
Dmitri kept her there, but his lock was almost gentle.
“I don’t know,” he said. “Might be the Tezocet again, or the damn thing might be
mutating as it spreads.”
Eva nodded as best she could, looked forward and saw Rhodri there, lying on the
ground with her, his hand stroking her cheek.
“Shh,” he said, smiling. “Don’t worry. It’ll be okay.”
Eva looked away from him, grunted.
“I did it,” she said. “I broke the virus. Check the machine.”
Dmitri shook, looked back, then leaned in to Eva.
“You still see him?” he asked.
Eva looked across the room. Rhodri licked his lips at her.
“No,” she lied. “No, he’s gone.”
Dmitri got up quickly, moved to the incubator and checked the progress bar as it
crept across the screen. It chimed happily, and the serum tube rotated around, then
emptied itself into a small container at the base of the machine. An orange cap
attached, and with a hiss, the work was done. Dmitri picked it up as if it were the most
valuable thing in the world.
“I’ve got to go use this,” he said to Eva, pocketing it. “You stay put.”
“Go? Wait, I thought this was for my mother! You said I was helping my mother!”
Dmitri shrugged, the door half-closed.
“You are,” he said. “But she don’t pay my bills. So she can wait a bit. The both of
you can.”
And he closed the door, leaving her alone with her comatose mother and the
ghostly Rhodri, who watched her hungrily from the corner.
235
42
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Crew was on his way in to the hospital when a pair of nurses, masks clutched to
their faces, ran out past him, screaming. He watched them go, curious, then shrugged
and continued inside.
To his left, the large heavy doors to the treatment area were being locked shut, an
old man in a blue hospital uniform wrapping yellow tape across the handles and to the
frame. The echoes of hundreds of screams seeped through the cracks. Crew motioned
to the tape, cleared his throat.
“What’s up with the panic?” he called, and the old man turned with a start, his
mask too tight on his face.
“Outbreak,” he gasped. “Something terrible. The whole floor has it, and two of the
nurses. We’re quarantining everyone. City is bringing in the army.”
Crew crossed his arms, made a face.
“Who started it?”
The old man tried to run past, but Crew caught him by the sleeve, swung him
around.
“Please!” cried the man. “Please, I have a family… I can’t stay here, it’s not safe!”
“I’ll tell you what’s not safe,” said Crew calmly. “Pissing me off, that’s what. Who
started the outbreak?”
“Nobody knows. They’re all delirious… they’re having waking nightmares, terrible
nightmares, and they scream day and night. We were sedating them at first, but there
wasn’t enough to last. We don’t know what else to—”
236
“Yeah yeah, not my problem,” Crew cut in. “There’s been a Healer around here,
right? Could it have been him? Did he come into contact with any of the patients?”
The old man tried to run again, but Crew re-gripped him, slammed him into the
wall.
“I said,” said Crew, “did the Healer see any patients?”
“No… no, Dr Bastien kept him out of the hospital. He never got in. He… he couldn’t
have been involved.”
Crew gritted his teeth, checked over his shoulder, grim.
“Who treated the first patient?” he asked. “Which doctor?”
“Dr Anouma,” the man stuttered. “But she’s been missing since last night. Nobody
can find her, and she won’t answer her pages.”
“Any idea where she lives?”
“Here at the hospital, but she’s not here, I swear. She had an emergency with her
brother, and she was just… gone…”
Crew reared on the man, leaning in close.
“Her brother?” he breathed.
* * *
The room was so dark that Crew got antsy, pulled his gun. He nudged his way
forward, checking every angle with quick sweeps, until he arrived at the back of the
room, dim light shining through thick plastic covers over the window.
A single bed was propped on the side, and there, sheets askew, was a frail black
man who seemed to be on the verge of complete disintegration. He was watching as
Crew approached, eyes bloodshot and fearful.
“You’re Dr Anouma’s brother?” Crew asked, rough from the start.
Adjobi nodded, weak but anxious.
“She saw you last night? Late last night?”
“Yes…” whispered Adjobi.
“Did she say where she was going?”
Adjobi sat higher in the bed, pupils opening wide.
“She’s not downstairs?”
237
Crew shook his head.
“She took off after seeing you. Any idea why?”
“I… I don’t—”
“What do you know about the outbreak down there? Did she mention it?”
Adjobi sat up, thin arms bracing on the rails beside him, gasping for breath.
“Outbreak? What outbreak?”
“Something about screaming, I don’t know. She treated the first patient, so I need
to find her. So really: anything you’ve got rolling around in that head of yours would
be very useful right now.”
Adjobi blinked, seemed lost in thought, shook his head.
“I don’t know. She didn’t mention anything, didn’t say she was going anywhere.
But I…” he strained, unlatched the rail at his right side and swung his legs over the
edge. “I’ve got to go help. They’re understaffed enough as it is…”
Crew did a double-take, put a hand on Adjobi’s shoulder, holding him back.
“Hold a second there. I don’t think that’s a good idea…”
“I’m a doctor, I know what I’m—”
“I don’t think you do!” Crew interrupted, motioning to the dozen wires that strung
from machines around the room, taped and deep-set into Adjobi’s arms. “Are you
going to bring all this crap with you when you go? No! So sit down and let somebody
else deal with it!”
Adjobi eyed him sadly.
“I just… I just want to help.”
“You can help by telling me where your sister might be. She might be the only
person that has a chance of finding out who did this.”
Adjobi sighed, sitting at the side of the bed, thinking.
“I don’t know. We have cots here in the hospital, and I… wait, there’s something.
There’s a place we used to go when we first arrived… it’s a sports field, out on
Bruslařská. She used to go there to think. She might be there, I suppose, if anything.”
Crew nodded, tapped Adjobi on the shoulder as he backed away.
“Thanks, that’s great. Now get back in bed. I’ve got to go catch a monster.”
238
“You think he’s behind this?” Adjobi asked, and Crew paused suddenly, by the
door.
“What did you say?” he asked.
“Do you think the Healer started the outbreak?” Adjobi said, perched at the side of
his bed.
Crew turned around, stormed back into the room, and shoved the frail man back
onto the mattress, pinning him down with a hand to the forehead.
“Who said anything about a Healer?” he sneered.
Adjobi’s eyes were wide with pain and fear. He couldn’t move, with all the IVs and
probes in his arms, and they strained viciously, making him whimper in agony.
“I… I just assumed because…”
“Ha! You lie like my mother,” he cackled. “What do you know about the Healer?”
Adjobi shook his head frantically as Crew leaned in.
“Nothing! I swear, I don’t know anything at all!”
Crew grunted, reached out and grabbed the mass of wires that strung into Adjobi’s
arm and twisted them, and the poor man screamed hoarsely at the metal under his
skin pulling, tearing. Crew held the wires in a swirl and did not let go, leaned in a bit
so he was close to Adjobi’s pained face.
“We’ve got an outbreak down there, and you’re playing games with me?”
Adjobi sputtered, tears in his eyes, begging or mouthing a prayer or something to
make the pain stop.
“He was here,” he gasped. “he’s hunting a virus.”
“The one downstairs?” Crew demanded.
“No! No, not that. It’s me. He was hunting me.”
Crew eased up a bit, sized up the confession.
“So why’s he out there and not here?” he asked, uncertain. “They don’t leave the
victims alive.”
“He’s looking for the one who infected me. We… we made a bargain…”
“What kind of bargain?”
“I… I told him what I knew, and he let me live.”
Crew leaned in close, breathed foul breath through his mask into Adjobi’s face.
239
“Don’t lie to me. I’m having a bad day.”
“It’s not a lie! He let me live! All I had to do was give him a name, and he let me
go!”
“Then that makes you an accessory to murder. As many murders as he commits.”
Adjobi cried, but couldn’t reach his hands to his face for the wires.
“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry,” he wept.
Crew grunted, stood back up, letting go of the wires, pressed a hand into his
forehead. He looked around the room, back at the door, back at Adjobi.
“Will he be back?”
“I hope not,” Adjobi said weakly, and Crew nodded.
“Where is he?” he asked, avoiding eye contact.
Adjobi looked away, almost ashamed, winced. He said nothing. Crew turned to
him, fists on his hips, tilted his head unhappily.
“I said where is he?”
Adjobi sighed a long sigh.
“I… I promised I wouldn’t…”
Crew grabbed the wires again, twisted them, and pulled back. Two of the IVs pulled
free from Adjobi’s arm, pouring antibiotics and blood out onto the bed and floor. He
shrieked in pain, but his head was held tight by his interrogator, and he just twitched
helplessly on the bed. He gasped for air, the pain blinding him, and tears poured down
his cheeks.
“Where is he?” seethed Crew, each word accented with a light pull at the tangled
cords.
Adjobi swallowed, almost crying, and spoke softly: “I don’t know.”
Crew shook his head with grim disappointment, reared back to pull the wires clean
out of the frail man’s body, but felt Adjobi’s other hand hold his wrist, pleading. After
a pained pause, he spoke:
“But I know where he’s going.”
240
43
KIESLINGSTRAßE 14, NUREMBERG, GERMANY
JULY 3
Halfway down the stairs, Eva heard the familiar thump of the street door, and the
shuffle, shuffle of feet on the steps. She froze, bag over her shoulder, hand on the wall,
dead silent as she waited. The footsteps got closer, closer, and then she saw him:
Rhodri came pacing upwards, caught sight of her, and paused.
“Eva!” he panted. “What’s… what’s going on?”
She adjusted the backpack, took a deep breath, tried to stay calm.
“I’m going out,” she said quietly.
“Out?” he asked, stepping towards her. “With all that? Where are you going?”
He smiled, happy, seemingly innocent. She returned the smile, but artificially.
“Just out. Nowhere special. I’ll… I’ll be back in a bit.”
Rhodri frowned at her.
“What about my afternoon off?” he said, touching her hand, and she flinched, very
slightly.
“Can it wait?” she asked, sliding past him, but he caught her round the waist,
leaned her against the wall, leaned in to kiss her. She kept her mouth away, and he
brushed up against her cheek, once, twice, checking to be sure.
He moved back.
“What’s wrong?” he asked, his tone hardening. “What aren’t you telling me?”
Eva pushed him back suddenly, and he fell into the railing.
“Not telling you? What are you not telling me!”
She started down the stairs, but he caught her arm, turned her around. He looked
desperate, confused, flustered. Angry.
241
“Eva, listen, I don’t understand. What are you talking about? What happened?”
She pulled herself away from him, but didn’t run. She stood there, eyes shooting
left and right, thinking, fighting with herself. She threw her backpack off, reached in
the side pocket, and pulled it out: the container with the orange lid.
“What’s this supposed to be?”
His mouth dropped open, but he didn’t move. Then he closed his mouth, jaw
clenched tight. He met her eyes reluctantly.
“It’s complicated,” he said.
“I’ll bet. So try me.”
“Eva, not out here—”
“Yes out here! Come on! Let me have it! What have you really been doing all these
months? It’s not web design, is it? Is it?”
He shook his head slowly, sat on the steps, head low.
“No, it’s not,” he admitted. “But it’s not what you think—”
“Oh spare me the sob story! You’ve been lying to me, pretending to do good, and
all this time, you’ve been messing around with this, killing innocent people! People we
know! my clients! our friends! You’ve been killing them!”
“What are you talking about, Eva? I’m not—”
“Save it! I saw the news clippings! Modena, Graz and Linz were all eaten up by
major outbreaks just days after we left! It’s not a coincidence, Rhodri! Nobody could
think that’s a coincidence! That’s just murder, plain and simple!”
“Eva, I swear, if you just—”
“No!” she shouted, gripping the vial tight in her hand. “No more lies! That’s it! I’m
done! Burn in hell, Rhodri…”
She grabbed her bag up off the steps, turned to leave, but Rhodri reached for her,
grabbed her elbow. She turned fast, slammed her fists into him, and he stumbled back,
trying to hold her arms. He reached forward, trying to wrap his hands around her head,
trying to bring her to him. She kicked out, hit his shin, and they both fell down the
steps, crashing into the landing below.
242
Eva scrambled to her knees, reaching for her backpack, slid her mask onto her face,
as Rhodri lay there against the wall, bleeding out of his temple, head turned strangely,
eyes half-open, twitching with his heartbeat.
She backed up, hit the wall, and then saw it: the container lay beside him, lid
nearby, his shirt and face wet with its serum.
Eva checked herself quickly, patting herself down, feeling everywhere, the mask,
her hair, her clothes… she was dry… she was dry, but Rhodri was… he was…
His chest was still, but she was too scared to reach in and check for a pulse. She
slid further away, eyes never leaving him, slid further down the hall, and away. Rhodri
made no move to stop her. No move at all.
243
44
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva sat in one corner of the room, knees up, while Rhodri sat in the other, biting
his lower lip like he was containing a thought best left unsaid. She shivered through
her sweater, pulled herself tighter, refusing to take her eyes off him. Her mother sang
lullabies softly between them.
“You’re not real,” she told him, spat the words across the room. “You’re not real
and we both know it.”
Rhodri said nothing in return.
“The cocktail is working, so you can’t speak, you can’t touch me. If you were real,
you wouldn’t sit there so quietly. You and I both know that.”
He shrugged, noncommittal.
Eva got up, moved to the stretcher, took her mother’s hand, but kept a careful
watch on Rhodri, who stayed in his place, silent.
“Mama, I don’t know if you can hear me in there. I hope you can. I just want you
to know… just know that I’m going to make you better. Soon. I promise you. You just
have to hold on there a little bit longer.”
“Shh, dear, shh,” said her mother softly, her hands brushing hair that wasn’t there,
in a reality long since gone. “No more nightmares for you, dear. It’s all right.”
Eva smiled weakly, nodded.
The door opened, and Eva made a quick check to the corner to make sure Rhodri
hadn’t moved, that it wasn’t him. He hadn’t moved an inch; he sat there, nonplussed,
watched Dmitri come in.
“So?” said Eva urgently. “Did it work? Did it do anything?”
244
Dmitri tried to hide a smile, but failed.
“Like magic,” he said happily. “It cut through the delusions like nobody’s business.
I can’t tell how much he remembers, but he’s definitely back to his normal self. The
virus wasn’t destructive, whatever it did. It just messed with brain chemistry.”
Eva smiled, nodded.
“So we can make up two more doses then? We can fix my mother next?”
He winced, scratched at his cheek.
“Actually, the boss wants to see you first.”
“But I—”
“He says it’s important, and honestly, I kind of agree with him. You’ll want to hear
this.”
Eva shook her head, holding on to her mother’s hand tightly.
“I’m not leaving until she’s cured. Leave me if you like, but you have to let me fix
her before anything else. It’s hell, the place she’s trapped. I can’t leave her there any
longer.”
“I get you, kid. So listen, I’ll start the incubator working, and we can see the boss
while it works. Sound fair?”
Eva eyed the machine, checked Dmitri’s expression of pure sincerity. She nodded
slowly, and he made his way over, tapped the trackpad and started the process to create
another container of serum. Then he took her by the arm and led her gently to the
door. She turned back to her mother, touched her shoulder lightly.
“I’ll be back, mama. I’ll be right back.”
Dmitri brought her out, down a narrow hallway to an antechamber, built like it was
an entirely different building. The walls were a dark crimson, gold patterns accenting
the design. A pair of antique chairs sat at either side of a set of large, heavy doubledoors. The floor was layered in opaque plastic covering, the kind used to contain spills;
it ran up the edges of the walls slightly, roughly laid; out of place.
The doors opened as they approached, and Eva found herself in the most
magnificent bedroom she had ever seen: intricate wood panelling and murals all
around the room, like a Renaissance exhibit where you slept. The ceiling was high and
245
was laced with pinpoints of light in columns up to a single spot at the top of an arch,
where a skylight gave an almost unlikely view of the heavens.
To the right was a large window, an arched stain glass portion at the top, giving a
frosted view of Prague that did a wonderful job of hiding the truth. There were dressers
and a desk, a large reading chair and a dozen antique lamps, and in the centre of the
room was an expansive plush bed.
Like the floors, the bed was like an anachronism, layered with plastic and synthetic
fabric, machines framing it coldly, all whirring and beeping the status of their patient.
Dmitri deposited her at the bedside, backed away quietly, and the man on the bed
opened his eyes weakly, smiled at her.
“Eva,” he said weakly. “welcome. It’s good to see you at last. I’m Richard, an
acquaintance of your mother’s.”
Eva said nothing, tried to find the right expression for the situation.
“I hear that I have you to thank for my life,” he continued, then tweaked to
something, motioned to the side. “Dmitri, could you make sure Eva’s cure is uploaded
with the rest of them? I don’t want to miss the deadline.”
“Already taken care of, boss.”
“Excellent,” Richard said, nodding happily. “Yes, the cure seems to be brilliantly
made, Eva. But I must say, it’s not that much of a shock to me. I’ve been trying to
convince your mother to let me invite you into our little club for some time. I wonder
if things would have turned out differently if we’d had your help instead of Rhodri’s…”
On the other side of the room, in the corner again, Rhodri rolled his eyes in silence.
Eva ignored it.
“What does my mother have to do with this? She was a doctor. She helped people!
How did you make her have anything to do with the kinds of atrocities—”
“Eva, dear, I think you misunderstand us.”
“Oh, I understand you pretty well. You kill people for kicks. It’s pretty easy to
grasp.”
He shook his head, reached a weak arm out to her, but she pushed it away. Dmitri
made a subtle step forward behind her.
“Eva, we don’t make viruses. We make the cures.”
246
Eva blinked, backed up.
“You… what? What cures?”
He sat up, pained, leaned forward in bed, his arms across his folded legs, like a
sickly skeleton wrapped in sheets. He thought a moment, avoided looking at her.
“For the last two years, we have been working here, in Prague, and elsewhere, to
discover, isolate and treat strains of viruses that are largely ignored by the major
corporations. They’re not as glamorous, not as profitable, I dare say, but they’re vital.
If left untreated, they grow and spread and mutate and then one day, they take down
a city, kill millions, and it’s only then that people wonder what went wrong. ‘How could
this happen?’ they ask, ‘I thought the worst of it was over.’ It’s a cycle that never ends,
and I’ve seen it far too many times to bear.
“My goal — our little group’s goal — was to eliminate those strains before they took
over Europe. We had our hands full with the eastern plagues that passed through
Prague. The ones the Chinese didn’t catch. But we also wanted to tackle the western
ones as well, and ideally before they got this far east. We tried making alliances with
doctors across Europe, offering bounties, but there are only so many incubators left
outside government hands, and the risks of using them is not for the weak of heart. So
it was decided we had to find an agent who could sample and treat the viruses no one
else had seen…”
“Wait, are you saying…”
“We hired Rhodri to handle that role.”
At the side of the room, Rhodri seemed close to tears, hurt by the revelation,
lowered his face into his hands. Eva nearly threw up.
“He was saving people?” she gasped.
The frail man said nothing for a moment, and Eva noticed Dmitri shake his head
to himself.
“Rhodri saved thousands, I’m sure. We sent him an incubator, and he used it to do
the initial diagnoses, and build the cure compounds. By the time you left Italy, he’d
found the treatments to nearly two dozen diseases. Diseases that, because of his work,
will never harm another soul again.”
Rhodri stared headlong into Eva, accusing.
247
“I… I didn’t know…”
“Your mother didn’t want you to know. She thought you weren’t able to cope with
it. She was afraid of what it might do to you, after you’d worked so hard to get your life
back together. She outright refused to let me offer you the job, and I admit, when I
heard about Rhodri and his apparent skills, I went behind her back to recruit him.
When she found out, she was furious; she was certain that bringing your boyfriend into
our team would put an unbearable strain on your relationship. I think he agreed with
her, vowed to keep it secret.”
“If I’d known… I blamed him…”
Dmitri coughed from behind, and Richard reached out, held Eva’s hand.
“It’s not as simple as it seemed, my dear,” he said. “Not by a long shot. It missed
our attention, too, at first… but after watching the situation closely, Dmitri realized
that every time the two of you left a city, a massive plague ravaged the population.
Almost like clockwork. Right after he finished deploying the antivirus, the reports
began to trickle in from sources around the region; within days, it was a flood no one
could overcome.”
“I don’t understand,” Eva said blankly. “Deployed how? He worked hard, but never
long enough to vaccinate dozens, let alone hundreds of people. How can you be sure it
was him?”
“Oh, it was more than possible it was him. So much so, it was unlikely to be anyone
else. We weren’t inoculating in the traditional sense, given how limited our resources
were. We created a series of aerosolized payloads, left them in key locations around
town, and let the contagious nature of our compounds do the rest.”
“Just like a typical terrorist strike—” Eva began.
“But with an anti-virus instead, yes,” smiled Richard. “Traditional treatment
vectors like booster shots are still part of the plan, but those methods are delayed,
wrought with red tape and political infighting. We thought of all the lives we could save
by pushing the cures straight to the people at risk, right when they needed them, and
we decided it was worth the risk.”
“Except if something went wrong,” Eva noted.
248
“Indeed. We were shocked to discover things had gone wrong, and put countless
hours into deciphering the cause.”
Eva frowned.
“So you were treating multiple viruses in a single treatment, right?”
“Yes, it was the most efficient way to operate.”
“But if you mixed that many compounds, maybe they were interacting with each
other, making something new, something dangerous you didn’t expect. I saw that a
bunch of times… you might have been making a poison with all your cures.”
“We thought of that, too,” he said sadly. “So in Linz, we were careful to test that
angle. Our agent here, he tested the compound endlessly, checked it from every angle,
and he was certain there was no chance of side-effects from that set. And yet, somehow,
once deployed by Rhodri in Linz, we had the same results. Massive casualties.”
Eva looked to Rhodri. He seemed as confused about all this as she was. She shook
it off, kept from looking at him. Dmitri’s phone purred softly, and he flipped it open,
backing out of the room.
“We checked and double-checked everything,” Richard continued. “You can
imagine our emotions at the time: we were mortified that we were somehow making
things worse, and we were desperate to figure out how it had gone all wrong. We’d
been working nearly a year in advance of Rhodri’s involvement without any issues
whatsoever, and now suddenly it was all falling apart? It made no sense; we started
second-guessing ourselves, thinking maybe it was a difference between eastern and
western coding techniques… anything that might help it make sense.
“But in the end, it was clear it wasn’t on our end. It wasn’t the individual cures. It
was something added to the mix right before deployment. It had to be. Somewhere
along the way, Rhodri had decided to use us to release new viruses into the wild. We
had enabled him, and so many lost their lives because of it.”
“Wait, hold on,” Eva said, her voice cracking with emotion, Rhodri in the corner
looking hopeful and yet tired, weak. “How do you know it was him? Maybe it was one
of your other people. You had someone reviewing stuff, maybe that person did it, and
you’re just blaming—”
249
“That man is in the hospital, fighting for his life, after falling prey to one of Rhodri’s
booby traps.”
Eva blinked. She glanced over to Rhodri, briefly, and in that second, his expression
changed. A slow, sly grin.
“What are you talking about?”
“This virus, the one that infected me, your mother... it was put into a package we
received from Rhodri. He’s trying to kill us, Eva, because we know what he’s done…”
Eva sighed loudly, overcome, lowered her head in shame, regret, something.
“Don’t worry,” she said softly. “It’s over now.”
“What do you mean? What’s over?”
“He’s not going to hurt anyone anymore. He’s dead. Rhodri’s dead.”
Richard sat up in bed, mouth hanging open, reached out and touched Eva’s
shoulder gently, squeezing.
“What do you mean, he’s dead?”
“I killed him. It was… it was an accident, but it happened. I haven’t been able to
tell how I should feel about it, all this time. But now I think… I think it was for the best.
It’s horrible to say that, but I do. I’m glad he’s dead, that he can’t hurt anyone else.”
Rhodri scowled at her, got to his feet, and her heart jerked in her chest.
“Eva,” Richard said carefully, deliberate. “When did this happen? When did he
die?”
Eva frowned.
“Months ago. Early July. He—”
“He’s not dead,” Richard said, ominously. “He can’t be dead. We were poisoned
three weeks ago, Eva. He’s been threatening us, the whole city, for weeks.”
“Wait, you mean Prague-1—”
“Rhodri is alive,” he said, weak. “And I fear he’s come to finish what he started.”
250
45
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Sobotka stepped around the blood on the floor, the streaks leading to the corner
where the body of a badly beaten man lay, propped up against the wall, eyes open and
manic. It stunk horribly, and she pulled the strap on her mask tighter, kept from
gagging. She moved silently into the hallway beyond, checked up the stairs, the wood
scraped and raw.
As she slipped into the living room on the second floor, she loosed her gun from its
holster, kept it trained at the floor, but ready, eyes wide open. She paused there, by the
entrance, saw the sheets on the ground, the broken window, the spent clothes. A large,
open duffel bag, stuffed with food packets, gadgets and blankets.
Just then, Pyotr came shuffling into the room, his beard shaved, clothes fresh,
carrying a selection of toiletries in a large biohazard bag. He threw them into the duffel
bag, began to turn back, then saw her, froze.
“Hello, Pyotr,” she grinned, aimed at his heart. “Where are you off to?”
His eyes darted, trying to imagine an excuse. She stormed towards him, used a
bloodied boot to kick him onto the floor, kept the gun at him.
“Please,” Pyotr pleaded, “I was going to tell you—”
“I’m sure,” Sobotka sneered, and kicked him in the knee. “Where’s your girlfriend,
Pyotr? I don’t see her, and I seem to recall telling you not to let her out of your sight.”
“We were kidnapped!” he explained, desperate, and she rolled her eyes. “Well, I
mean, she was kidnapped. They let me go.”
“How convenient for you.”
“It’s the truth, I swear! She made them let me go!”
251
“If she knows about your little scam, why would she cut you any slack? You helped
her escape, didn’t you?”
“No! She let me go! She said she’s sick of people dying, told them to kick me out
alone!”
Sobotka perfected her aim on his forehead, scowled.
“Too bad for you, I’m still good with the dying.”
He covered his head with his arms, ready for the shot, but just then, Sobotka’s
phone rang. She kept the gun at him, reached into her pocket and flipped it open.
“Hold that thought,” she said to Pyotr, then barked into the phone: “I’m busy.
What?”
“Did you hear yet?” Crew wheezed. “You know what’s going on?”
“No. What’s going on?”
“There’s an outbreak at the hospital. They’ve shut down the main floor, locked
everyone in. They’re already calling it Prague-1, whatever it is.”
Sobotka’s mouth fell open, then curled into a smile.
“Rhodri Tenant’s come to town,” she said.
“Tenant? Hell no! The Healer!”
“Oh for the love of god, Crew. It’s obviously not the Healer. Give it up!”
“That’s what you say, but I’ve got a witness that puts him tight with a doctor at the
source of the outbreak.”
“So what, a doctor is working with a Healer to kill us? It kind of goes against both
their philosophies, don’t you think?”
“People do stupid things,” Crew said ominously.
“Case in point,” Sobotka cracked.
“So I’m going it alone? You’re not going to give me backup when I take this joker
down?”
Sobotka checked Pyotr, the snow-covered city outside, thought a moment.
“No,” she said. “I’ve got enough to cut through here. Waste time if you need to. Let
me know how it goes.”
252
Crew harumphed and hung up on her. She slid the phone back into her pocket,
cricked her neck and refocused on Pyotr, who hadn’t found a good alternative to
cowering yet.
“So it seems you did your job half-well,” she sighed. “Tenant’s here.”
“He came?” gasped Pyotr. “How do you know?”
“Kicked off a new outbreak. The outbreak. And god knows, he’s probably looking
for you now, after what you did to his girlfriend.”
“But she isn’t—”
“I’m pretty sure a homicidal maniac isn’t going to care,” she interrupted, stowing
her gun, offering him a hand. He looked at it, apprehensive, then reached out and let
himself be pulled to his feet. He watched her, cautious.
“The ones who kidnapped Kolikov, did they seem friend-like, or enemy-like?”
Pyotr thought a moment, tense and spastic.
“I think they knew her. I never found out from where, but—”
“They’re probably friends of Tenant’s then,” she grumbled, grabbed him by the
collar and dragged him to the stairs roughly.
“Where are we going?” he squeaked as he was thrown down the first few steps.
“You’re going to show me exactly where they brought you,” she called down. “And
we’re going to turn Mr Tenant’s head into a sieve.”
* * *
Carey put the magazine down atop the pile of seven others, his gloves creaking
from the effort, and adjusted the mask on his face to alleviate the pinching on his nose.
The goggles fogged briefly, but then a quick hiss later, things went back to normal. He
checked his watch again, shook his head.
“I don’t suppose you have any more information…” he began asking one of the
dark-suited guards who stood by the door, hands folded neatly, staring at nothing.
The guard continued to ignore him.
Carey picked up another magazine, flipped the first few pages, then checked the
date.
253
“This one is ten years old,” he sighed to no one, certainly not the guard. “Don’t you
people recycle anything here?”
He checked his watch yet again, then threw the magazine down, got to his feet. The
guard turned slightly, hands ready, stared down and down and down at Carey’s
impressively bundled figure.
“I’m sorry,” Carey said, angry but still apologetic. “This just won’t do. I have been
waiting here for nearly two hours, and there’s been no indication that anyone even
knows I’m here. I am an agent of the British government, and I insist on seeing Mr
Daniels right n—”
Mid-word, the doors opened and a thickly-set man with a stubbly jaw and a crisp
white mask strode in, hand out; Carey shook it, apprehensive.
“Mr Carey, is it?” the man asked, accent thick. Eastern European.
“Y-y-yes. I’ve been waiting—”
“Yeah, I should apologize for that. My staff ain’t the brightest, got the lines of
communication tangled, as it were. I didn’t hear you’d arrived until just a few minutes
ago. Did anyone get you something to eat or…” he smiled at the full-head mask,
shrugged. “Or not.”
“It’s quite all right. Are you… Mr Daniels?”
The man guffawed loudly, slapped Carey on the back.
“Me? No, I’m his executive assistant, Dmitri.”
“Just ‘Dmitri’?”
“Unless you’re buyin’ drinks,” he smirked, leading Carey into a hallway. A guard
stood every few metres, hands posed like the one Carey’d seen, staring past them.
Expertly trained.
“I have a warrant here to take Mr Daniels into custody immediately and—”
“Yeah, he’s aware. He wants me to show you in right away. But…”
Dmitri paused them, leaned closer to Carey, confidential, eyes darting around.
“He’s been a bit under the weather lately. Had a bad cold. Prague winters, y’know.
So whatever you do, don’t go rushing to conclusions, okay? He’s pretty sensitive to
people treating him like he’s diseased and such. Just try and act natural. Pretend he
looks fine. Got it?”
254
Carey nodded tentatively. His body suit made it somewhat difficult, however.
He was led into an ornate bedroom just as a young woman, pale and trembling,
shuffled out. She watched him carefully, keeping a broad distance, in complete silence.
Carey arrived at the bedside of a frail-looking man, various life-saving machines slid
into dark corners of the room, but strikingly present.
Carey cleared his throat, reached out a cordial hand.
“Mr Daniels,” he said, noticing three of the guards in the room stepping forward,
ready. “So good to finally meet you.”
Daniels took the hand, nodded as if he were at a dinner party, meeting a random
guest.
“Likewise,” he said. “I’m afraid I didn’t catch your name.”
“Oh, William Carey, sir. Special agent for the Containment Office. My Director—”
“I know your Director well, Mr Carey. I trust he’s well?”
“Yes, sir. Actually, he made me promise I would ask how you’re doing, too.”
There was an uncomfortable pause. Even the guards looked like they wanted to
leave.
“I’m doing fine, thank you,” said Daniels, smiling at the stiffness of the moment.
“Tending to business, all that.”
Carey nodded in agreement, big long bobs of his head, and clasped his hands
around the heavy metal case that was pulling him downward.
“I don’t mean to impose, sir,” said Carey, jovially. “But I’m afraid I will need to
gather a quick blood sample from you, if it’s convenient.”
“Please do,” Daniels smiled, gesturing to his bed. Carey heaved the case up onto
the sheets with some effort and popped it open. He worked fast, hands shaking,
clicking the syringe together and attaching it to the base of the extraction instrument.
After a moment of work, he had gathered a decent sample of blood from Daniels’
arm, slid the vial into the case’s built-in processor. He pushed the ‘test’ button, sighed
a self-satisfied sigh, and nodded to Daniels.
“Won’t be long,” he said, as if he were waiting for dinner to reheat in the
microwave.
255
Daniels put a hand on Carey’s shoulder, causing instant tension. He shifted
slightly.
“We are at war, Mr Carey,” came the voice, quiet and confidential.
“Indeed, sir,” he said, not knowing what else to say.
“If these viruses make it into Britain somehow and we could have stopped them…”
Daniels said, his voice filling with anger. “I found these diseases, I cured them, and I
did it for my country. And I cannot accept that that is somehow wrong.”
Carey nodded.
“I understand, sir. But… one thing at a time, I suppose.”
He motioned down to the computer, still chugging away. Daniels’ eyes were cold.
“You think I’m dying.”
“Well I mean… er…” Carey said, catching a mean glare from Dmitri, who stood to
the side with his arms crossed unhappily. “In all honesty, sir, you don’t look healthy,
and you’ve been living in a black zone for… well… quite a long time, we think. Certainly
a long time to not have picked up something.”
Daniels smiled, and the computer purred softly as it finished its work. Carey looked
down at the read-out and frowned. He looked back up at Daniels, cocked his head.
“It… you’re… you’re clean.”
Daniels’ smile seemed relieved at the same time as vindicated. He patted Carey on
the shoulder.
“It’s okay, Mr Carey, I know I must not look it.”
Carey nodded blankly, then snapped out of his stupor, shoulders straightening,
and he clasped his hands together tightly.
“In that case, sir,” he said, nearly regaining his authoritative footing. “I’m going to
have to place you under arrest for violating the National Containment Order.”
Daniels nodded again, this time less happily, but still with confidence. Carey
removed a pair of handcuffs from his pack, and the guards in the room began to move
again, until Daniels held up a pausing hand. To them, but also to Carey.
“If you would be kind enough to wait a moment, Mr Carey,” said Daniels kindly,
stopping Carey dead in his tracks. “I have a favour to ask of you.”
256
46
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
When Eva arrived back in the room, Rhodri was already there. She shut the door
behind her, eyed him carefully.
“I should have made sure you were dead,” she told him, cold and dispassionate.
He didn’t reply, just smirked at her.
“Still in my head,” she sighed. “But I guess that’s better than the alternative.”
She checked the incubator, and pulled the finished container out, the lid fastened
tight. She pushed it into her pocket, hit the button to create another batch, but the
machine flashed a warning: “Please insert serum refill tube”. She checked inside, and
sure enough, it was empty. She looked back at her mother, heard a soft lullaby,
squeezed the container in her pocket.
“I’ll be right back, mama,” she whispered, and opened the door a crack.
Outside, another guard stood with his back to her, watching the hallway carefully.
He turned his head slightly at the door opening, then looked back ahead.
“Go back inside,” he told her.
“I need some needles,” she said, “so I can help my mother.”
He didn’t move a muscle.
“Stay inside,” he repeated sternly. “Until I say otherwise.”
Eva stepped into the hall, tense and angry, looked left and right, trying to find a
medical station somewhere. The guard turned to her, grabbed her by the arm, tried to
push her back into the room.
“I said stay inside!” he growled. She fought back, gripping the door frame. The
guard was clearly not prepared for such an occasion, let go over her arm, and planted
257
his palm on her face, pushing her. She ducked away from the movement, slipped
outside, and he stumbled in.
She was halfway down the hall when she was caught again, dragged back offbalance, and slammed against the wall.
“Don’t mess with me, girlie,” he said, angrily. “Just get in the room and shut up.”
She kneed him in the groin, and he fell over at once.
“Don’t mess with me,” she seethed, stepping over him and checking down the hall.
But then she heard it: the clear click of a gun ready to shoot. She looked over her
shoulder, saw the guard there, carefully aiming at her, eyes narrow with pain.
“That’s it!” he said, vein bulging in his forehead. “On your knees!”
Eva’s face was blank with fear. She’d overstepped, and now this… she was halfway
to complying when she heard angry shouts from behind, and Dmitri rushed in,
snatching the gun away from the guard and slamming him against the wall.
“What the hell do you think you’re doing?” he yelled into the guard’s face. “I told
you to watch her, not shoot her!”
“She was trying to leave the—”
“I don’t care what she was doing! There’s no excuse for this!”
“But—”
Dmitri ripped the man’s mask off his face, threw it to the ground. He grabbed him
on the collar, shoved him towards Eva, onto the floor.
“Get out of my sight. You’re fired. If I see you again, I’ll have you shot. By someone
competent.”
The guard scrambled away, rushing down the hall, through a door and out of sight.
Dmitri helped Eva to her feet, turned meekly to the others who’d come with him.
“Sorry about that, Mr Carey,” he said apologetically. “Hard to find good help round
here.”
The masked man — whom Eva thought looked horribly like the Healers she’d heard
about all these years — nodded. Richard looked rattled, kept checking Eva, making
sure she was okay.
“It’s hard to find good help pretty much everywhere,” Carey agreed. “Now if you
don’t mind…”
258
He held out a small device with a needle at its point, started towards Eva. She
backed up, hitting the wall.
“What’s going on?” she gasped.
Richard put a hand on Carey’s arm, held him back.
“I’m sorry, Mr Carey, I thought I made it clear I was seeking asylum for my wife
and step-daughter.”
Eva’s head swam suddenly, and she slid to the ground, looking from Richard to
Carey to Dmitri, trying to see… trying to make sense of it. It was impossible to read
Carey, but by the change in his stance, he was preparing to be tough.
“You made it perfectly clear, Mr Daniels, but I’m afraid regulations require me to
check their health status before I can process them, even as refugees. They can’t be
admitted, even to Brighton, if they’re actively infected.”
“Listen, I have a personal facility outside London I can sequester them in if that—
”
“I’m afraid not, sir. It would be nearly impossible under normal circumstances, but
given the particulars of the trial you’ll be subject to, we wouldn’t stand a chance of
sneaking something like that under the rug. No chance at all. We can only mask
scrutiny so far.”
Eva had her head in her hands, trembling.
“You’re married?” she said, staring at the floor. “And nobody thought to tell me?”
Carey looked to Richard, cocked his head.
“Mr Daniels…?” he asked.
Richard waved it off, a hint of a politic smile, but drowning in concern.
“She’s been gone for many years. Travel. I don’t think she got the wedding
announcement.”
Eva glared at Richard, cold. Dmitri, behind Carey, gave her a very slow shake of
the head. She frowned briefly, and he returned it with a wordless urgent appeal.
“If she’s been travelling, I’ve double the reason to check her blood,” Carey said.
“Now if you don’t mind, I’ve a schedule to keep.”
Eva looked to Richard, to Dmitri, desperate for advice, guidance. They both
nodded to her solemnly.
259
“Fine,” she sighed, rolling up her sleeve and letting him draw the blood. When he
was done, she slid her arm close to herself, backed against the wall, waited. Carey
stared at his device intently, seemingly oblivious to the rest of the tension in the
cramped hallway.
He looked up, to Eva, then settled on Richard.
“She’s infected,” he said, double-checking the results. “I’m afraid I can’t take her
with us.”
“You’ll leave me here alone? What about my mother! She’d never agree to that if
she were—”
“If she were what?” Carey asked, checking between Richard and Dmitri. “Is she
infected as well?”
“Mr Carey, if you could just…” Richard began, but he was cut off by Carey swinging
a pair of handcuffs up.
“I’m sorry, Mr Daniels. We’ve no more time for these games. You’ve got to come
with me.”
He pushed Richard against the wall, pulled one arm back, then the other. And then
a gun pointed carefully at the side of his head; he almost didn’t see it through the
goggles.
“Mr Carey,” Richard said darkly. “I’m afraid this won’t work out after all.”
Dmitri motioned with his gun, and Carey obediently backed away from the rest of
them, hands in the air, cuffs hanging from his fingers. Eva got to her feet behind
Dmitri. Richard smiled weakly.
“And now we will have to reconsider our plan of action,” he said without a hint of
frustration. “If you’ll come with me, then.”
Dmitri kept the gun on the prisoner, and the three men walked down the hall and
out of sight, leaving Eva alone again, only Rhodri keeping her company. He heard him
chuckle quietly. She scowled at him.
She went back into the room and found her mother crying softly, shaking her head
side to side as if trying to wake up. Tears streamed down her face, and her arms tensed
violently; if she’d been free, she might have done something horrible with her clawing
hands. Eva brushed her hair gently, leaned in and kissed her on the forehead.
260
“Just another minute, mama. I promise,” she said, then snuck back into the hall.
Down, away from Richard’s room, she found a small walk-in-closet filled with shelves
and drawers and a large needle dispenser in the back. She ducked in, took a syringe
from the counter and clipped on a head. She pulled the container from her pocket,
undid the lid, and gently placed the needle into the serum.
Just then, she heard loud footsteps in the hall, shouting. It startled her, and she
dropped the container… she tried to catch it before it hit the ground, but it bounced off
the countertop and crashed on the floor, upside-down. The cure flowed quickly onto
the tile.
She bit back a curse as she heard the quick pause of footsteps outside.
“Hey, should this be open?” called a gruff voice, a guard, in Russian.
Eva reached down, snatched the fallen container off the ground, and quickly slid
back to the side of the door, the unused needle in her hands as her only weapon. She
stayed there in the dark, the door open a crack, waiting.
She heard the sound of heavy boots stepping into the room, and the door swung
wider. Breathing, panting almost, and the shadow on the wall told her he was alone.
She held the needle backhand, evened her breathing. She waited for him to move.
But instead, he ducked back out, closing the door behind him, and she stood in the
darkness.
“All clear!” he called out, and took off down the hall.
Eva released her breath, felt shaky. She reached over, turned on the lights, and
checked the spilled antivirus. The container was empty, and what was left on the floor
was so dispersed, it was unusable. Eva stood up, ran her hands through her hair, trying
to think. She felt the warm breath of Rhodri on her neck, but ignored it.
She started rushing through drawers, cupboards, anything, until she found a tray
labelled “Incubator Refills”. It was empty. She slammed it back into place, swearing.
“If I can’t make any more…” she whispered to herself.
It came to her suddenly: the refills at her mother’s apartment! She smiled broadly,
and turned, hearing Rhodri clapping at her, sarcastic applause. He didn’t speak, but
he was getting clearer in her mind. She grimaced.
“I need to slow it down,” she muttered.
261
She rummaged again, quickly coming to a small refrigerated compartment labelled
“Cocktails”. She threw it open, and stumbled back at what she saw: there was only one
vial of cocktail left. She darted eyes to Rhodri, then to the door, and she grabbed it out
of the fridge, another needle, and rushed back down the hall.
Her mother was starting to scream again, convulsing angrily. Eva filled the needle,
pushed it into her mother’s IV, then paused.
“I need you to stay calm until we get home, all right, mama?”
There was no response. Eva inhaled slowly, then injected the last of the cocktail.
She rested her head on the panicked chest, hearing the heartbeat, hearing it slow,
becoming calmer, and then she carefully undid the restraints, pulled her mother out
of bed, and with the incubator in one hand, stumbled her way home.
Rhodri trailed behind, nearly stepping on her heels, grinning all the way.
262
47
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
The Healer’s suit was humming softly as the snow melted on his shoulders. He
watched the building across the street, a stark white structure almost trying to blend
into the cold wintry afternoon. The lights were all on, but there was no motion from
inside.
Beside him, Anouma was shivering, her winter jacket atop her white coat, but
neither warm enough to fight off the breeze.
“You will stay here,” he said to her, blunt and brief.
She looked at him, squinted. She seemed to see right into him, and he looked away
as if to stop her. She shook her head.
“No,” she said firmly. “I’ve got to go with you. I need to stop you from killing any
more innocent people.”
“It could be dangerous,” he countered.
“Not if I do the talking,” she said. “If it were up to you, everything would be a
bloodbath. Let me try.”
Silence. He stood beside her and the snow continued to fall.
“Fine,” he said bitterly, and started across the street, aware of her following close
behind.
They reached the main door and he reached to knock, but she moved him aside,
out of sight, and knocked on the door herself. He stared at her, warning, but she kept
her arms tightly locked behind herself, watching the snow, waiting.
He heard the dead bolt unlock. A tentative noise. And then, a pause, a quiet
scraping of metal on the door. Anouma didn’t notice it, kept a pleasant, hopeful smile
263
on her face. But the Healer knew. He threw his cloak over his shoulder, shoved her to
the side, and as the door opened, he grabbed the gun that peeked through the opening.
With a solid pull, he found his mark: he pinched a gloved hand so hard it spasmed and
dropped the weapon.
Anouma fell to the ground just as the Healer spun around, letting go the door and
giving it a swift kick, straight into the face of a guard, who fell backwards into the
hallway, his nose broken and gushing blood.
The man, stunned and disoriented, reached feebly for his second weapon as the
Healer marched forward, stepping on his right arm, and then punching him squarely
in the face. The man’s head hit the ground with a thud, and his eyes rolled back into
unconsciousness.
The Healer looked back to Anouma, scowled beneath his mask.
“Wait outside. I must deal with innocent people.”
He walked past his first target, flexing his hurt shoulder as he made his way down
the hall. It hurt, but burned in a way that pushed him forward.
As he came to the first door, on his left, he saw on the frame the quick movement
of a shadow. Without losing his pace, he leapt forward into a roll, fast and low, and his
machete swung out in time to catch another guard’s arm in the middle as they reached
out to fire. The arm wasn’t cut clean off, but it hung uselessly, and the guard screamed
loudly, fell down into the doorway.
The Healer noticed, just in time, the accomplice inside the room; another roll
helped him dodge a wide shotgun blast. He spun his weapon around in his hand, his
back to the wall, out of view.
The first guard, on the floor, was choking now, having cried himself into a daze.
The Healer heard a quick inhalation, and the second man leapt out of the room, gun
firing blindly, hoping for a hit. The Healer ducked down, pushed into the attack; he
collided with the man, shoving him into the wall, and then hit him with his elbow,
knocking some teeth out and sending the enemy sprawling.
The gun skidded down the hall, out of reach, and the Healer kicked the side of his
head with a heavy boot. He hit the wall, left a mark of blood.
264
The Healer had just enough time to duck into the side room before a round of
automatic weapons fire sprayed where he’d been standing. Inside, two large tables
stood against the far wall, a collection of metal chairs, some beverages scattered
around. He noticed the light switch next to him and flicked it downward, disappearing
into the darkness.
The shadows of the new assailants slid towards him, becoming sharper and sharper
as they closed in. He darted across the room, upended one of the tables, and slid it
towards the door, covering the opening. In a second, the table shattered in a dozen
places, wood chips tossed wildly by bullets. The Healer ducked around the other side
of the door, out of view, silent.
The light from the hallway shone through the holes in the table, streaks through
the dusty air, and for a moment, all the Healer could hear were the pained gasps of the
bleeding guard outside. Then a hit, a crunch, another hit, and the table started to move.
Another pause, and the Healer turned his machete around again, backhanded, and
pressed himself against the wall.
A kick now, and this time the table slid into the room, and a rectangle of light hit
the far wall, framing the form of a guard whose gun was aimed the wrong way. The
Healer swung around, catching the man in the chest with his blade; the man jerked
violently as the impact ended his life. Without a pause, the Healer moved forward, as
the wood behind him exploded, gunshots hitting the back wall harmlessly.
The Healer pulled the dead man’s gun from his hand, came round the corner so
fast the second guard had no time to react. The flow of bullets hit the guard ruthlessly
in the chest, and he dropped to the ground, his face still in a state of shock.
A quick movement later, the Healer was on the other side of the door again,
watching bodies pile in front of his exit.
He flicked the light on. Paused. Then off.
He listened, heard nothing. Staggering silence. He looked down at the man with
the severed arm, saw he was looking back around the corner, his whimpering all but
stopped, his breathing calm. Emboldened.
The Healer grabbed him by his jacket, and with a pained grunt, yanked him out of
the doorway and into the room. The man screamed hysterically, his arm nearly coming
265
off; at least one set of boots outside pounded loudly, coming to his rescue. The Healer
held the man close to him, and then, trying to think past his pain, threw the man out
into the hallway.
A barrage of gunfire shot out and sprayed the poor wretch with bullets, and he
bounced off the wall and onto the ground, dead before he could continue his
screaming. The Healer used the moment of confusion to point the stolen gun round
the corner and fire in an arc, and he heard the quick thuds of hits, grunts, yelps, and
then heavy thumps as bodies landed on the ground.
He pulled his arm back into the room, stayed tight against the wall, held the pain
in his shoulder at bay. There were no sounds but the ringing in his ears, the whining
noise he couldn’t escape. His suit was warning him, warning him to calm down.
“Are you alive?” called Anouma, somewhere in the distance.
He paused.
“Yes,” he answered simply.
He heard the sound of tentative footsteps.
“They’re all dead,” she said, voice trembling.
He carefully walked into the hallway again, saw the damage all around; Anouma
standing by the front door, just beyond the first sentry, stalled by the sight of so many
bodies. He nodded to her painfully.
“You should leave,” he told her. “They are not interested in talking.”
“Yes,” she said quietly, and she stepped away, back outside.
* * *
Crew hit the brakes too late, and the car skidded sideways, slamming sidelong into
the dark sedan, sending the two of them sliding on the ice, until the sedan came to a
rest just inches from the side of a building. When the cars stopped, Crew threw himself
out, chest puffed and angry.
“What the hell was that?” he shouted. “Learn to drive, you maniac!”
“Me?” yelled Sobotka, kicking her own door closed, Pyotr cuffed in the back seat.
“What kind of idiot speeds around in these conditions?”
“It’s November!” Crew blustered. “It’ll melt!”
266
Sobotka laughed, checked her car for damage. It was dented lightly along the side,
but otherwise fine. The Aston-Martin was somehow in pristine condition.
“Nice car,” she cracked. “where you going so fast?”
Crew checked the house numbers, frowning. He settled on the one Sobotka’s car
had nearly crashed into. He motioned with his chin.
“This one right here. You?”
Sobotka frowned, checked back to Pyotr, then back to Crew.
“Same.”
Crew cackled madly, doubled over from the effort, while Sobotka scowled.
“Oh this is rich! So what, your kid is teamed up with my Healer or something?”
Sobotka shook her head. She was about to speak when the side door to the building
opened, and into the street came Eva, her mother, and an incubator. They made it a
few steps before Eva noticed Sobotka and Crew, arms folded, obviously amused at their
own good luck.
Eva set the incubator down, held her mother upright.
“This isn’t what it looks like!” she pleaded.
“Oh, then you’ve got to tell me what it is!” Sobotka cackled.
“Found your mother, I see,” said Crew, nodding to his partner. “Good luck, that.”
“Yes indeed,” said Sobotka gravely.
Eva looked behind them at the running car, saw Pyotr’s face pressed close to the
windshield, trying to spy. She sneered at them.
“How’s your snitch working out?” she said bitterly.
Sobotka grinned.
“Not the best snitch, but he’ll do,” she sneered. “I think you and your mother have
some big things to explain to us. Like where you’re hiding your boyfriend, and how to
stop the outbreak at the hospital.”
Eva backed up, then heard the sound of crashing glass, and a second-storey
window in Daniels’ compound broke outwards. A man in a black suit flew backwards
and down, down into the windshield of the car, cracking it horribly. Shards of glass
stuck out of his already-mangled body, and he crumpled there, blood seeping out.
Crew, Sobotka and Eva all looked at the dead man in shock.
267
“Thank god I didn’t park there,” Crew said.
Crew and Sobotka looked back to Eva, then the window, then back to Eva again,
exchanged glances.
“I think you want to check in there first,” Eva offered.
“Hell yeah,” said Crew, turning and running back to the front of the building.
“We’ll be in touch!” called Sobotka, following her partner with her gun drawn.
Eva paused for a moment, looking at the man on the car, then picked up the
incubator and pushed onward, back to home.
268
48
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
The Healer retrieved his machete from the chest of a fallen guard, wiped the blood
off on a stray leg, then swung it lightly, getting the weight back. The upstairs hallway
was deserted now, but for the sounds of two men slowly dying of their wounds. Ahead
of him, a room beckoned cheerfully, pleasant lighting nearly hiding the shadow of
another person.
He stopped for a moment, listened. The broken window behind him was whistling
faintly as the wind outside blew by, and he heard the drip, drip, drip of snow melting
inside and onto the floor. A very quiet shuffle called from ahead.
He started forward, involuntarily clutching his injured shoulder, squeezing the
pain away. He heard another soft shuffle among the crackles and the drips, and he held
his breath so he could hear better. There was a very calm and deliberate breathing,
very close. Very calm. A professional.
In a moment, they were engaged. A sharp sensation sliced into the Healer’s left
arm just above his elbow, and his suit screamed out with his senses, and he knew he’d
been cut. He spun himself around, his machete swinging, and the other man barely
dodged. A bloodied axe wrenched from the wall.
The two of them faced each other, far enough apart to be safe, but not enough to
release any tension. They began again: the axe swung forward, and the Healer sidestepped, swung with his machete, but both missed; the Healer received a kick to the
stomach that sent him flailing backwards, trying to keep from landing off his feet.
The axe came back towards him in a broad arc, but he let himself fall backwards,
avoiding it. He landed on the ground and without a pause to think, dangerously swung
269
his arm and weapon out towards the other man’s legs; felt a tug as he sliced the Achilles
tendon.
The man growled at the pain, tried to continue on, but his leg wouldn’t hold him
anymore. He dropped downward onto one knee, roaring under his breath, refusing to
give in. The Healer’s arm was still exposed from the attack and his enemy knew it,
lurching forward with his axe, but only managing to hit the Healer’s cloak behind him.
Pinned down, the Healer tried to escape, but the man grabbed his machete hand
and started beating it onto the ground, trying to break his grip. The Healer braced
himself with his other hand, his cut arm stinging sharply as disinfectant shifted in the
wound. His opponent was breathing heavily, and the blood from his leg was forming a
pool under them.
The Healer’s suit wailed: his heart rate burst forward, his wound seared, the blood
around him creeping ever closer… his vision blurred momentarily, shook his head
frantically. His hand was slammed into the ground, his index finger letting go slightly,
giving up under the beating. The man was panting heavily now, moving in for the kill.
When his hand was lifted off the ground again, the Healer used the clearance to
spin the blade around backhanded, and then, before he could lose the advantage,
plunged it into the man’s good thigh.
This time the man screamed, gripped down towards his legs, and choked as the
blade was pulled free. The Healer rolled to his knees and grabbed the axe’s handle,
pulled it from the floor and unbound himself. As the other man started to curl into a
ball on the floor, breathing heavily, the Healer got to his feet, holding his blade and the
axe loose by his side.
The man looked up at the Healer, eyes narrow with pain and anger. His eyelids
drooped slightly as the blood loss made him dizzy. The Healer watched him for a
moment, trying to calm his own heart.
Then with visible effort, the Healer swung the axe back and threw it across the
room, embedding it in a wall. He looked back to the man on the floor, shook his head
no.
Struggling painfully, his suit still calling out for him to stop, to slow down, the
Healer dragged his battered body towards the staircase.
270
* * *
Carey listened carefully from the centre of Daniels’ bedroom, cuffs half-latched,
frozen in fear. There were no noises anymore, but the silence was terrifying. Behind
him, Dmitri was rechecking clips for his pistol, repeating something to himself in
Russian that Carey couldn’t understand. Daniels was back on his bed, quiet, waiting
for word.
The dresser they’d propped in front of the door was thick, but it wobbled slightly
when Dmitri leaned on it, making Carey shiver. And then, there… a creak outside the
door, a soft pacing.
Carey moved further away from the door, back towards the bed. Dmitri reloaded
his gun and took aim, his eyes narrow with intense focus. Carey stumbled as he paced
backwards, never taking his eyes off the danger.
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
No one moved, not even to check each other’s expressions. Carey felt miserably hot
in his mask, panic setting in, fumbled suddenly with the latches by his neck, but
couldn’t get to them. Dmitri made a quick sideways glance at him, obviously annoyed
at the distraction.
The latches were so tight, Carey couldn’t get a grip somehow… his fingers felt
numb… and — knock! — he pulled uselessly at a strap, the metal links clinking quietly
but so very deafening somehow. He heard a gurgle, gasped for breath, trying to take
the damn thing off!
“I can’t breathe…” he gasped. “I can’t breathe in this thing…”
Dmitri glared back, looking ready to waste a bullet on Carey. But instead, his eyes
were wide and he half-turned, his gun lowering, face blanching.
Carey thought something must be wrong with him, a sudden panic took hold. He
jerked around, trying to get free of his mask, but then he heard it again: the gurgling.
A gurgling noise…
271
He looked around and saw Daniels, flopped over on his side on the bed, blood
running out of his mouth, his ears, his nose… his eyes were bloody, crying red. He
gurgled again, a crimson bubble forming at his lips, and twitched slightly. Carey
gasped, staggered back.
“Oh my god…” he whispered. “His blood was clear. His blood was clear...”
Then there was a loud metallic crunch, and Carey saw a beaten blade knock the
doorknob out of the door, twist round and disappear. Dmitri wasted no time: he fired
into the door seven times, backing up slightly as he did so, putting distance between
himself and whatever might come through the door next.
There was a moment of silence, and the sound of the shots echoed in Carey’s ears.
Then, with a slow start: a bump, and then he watched with horror as the door started
to slide forward, pushing the dresser with it.
Dmitri moved into the corner of the room and started firing again, unloading his
clip into the door. He quickly re-loaded again and repeated the process with another
ten or so bullets before stopping, watching in horror as the door kept moving. The light
through the holes beamed through uninterrupted, and yet somehow, the door was still
moving…
Dmitri motioned for Carey to stay still, and he slowly moved up and to the right of
the door, staying flat against the wall, and aiming carefully at the space the intruder
would need to come through. He was safely out of sight, ready.
Carey realized with a jolt that he was not out of sight, and stumbled backwards,
next to Daniels’ limp body, and tried to stay still.
There was a moment of silence, no one moving, no sign of life from any quarter.
And then, slowly, Carey saw the tip of a long battered blade climb up along the crack
in the door, and across towards the light switch. He looked to Dmitri urgently, willing
him to see it, but it was beyond the door, out of his line of sight.
Carey swallowed slowly, and then the room went dark.
* * *
The Healer knelt down next to the door, wood chips on his back. Beyond, the room
was dark, silent. No movements, no shadows, no gleams or reflections. He held his
272
breath, tried to quiet his suit, but it screamed at him, warned him of the cuts and
bruises he already felt intensely.
He took a deep breath, closed his eyes a moment, and then dove through the door,
into the room. He rolled to his feet and stayed low, checking his surroundings: a large
bed, and on it, one man covered in blood… not breathing, and behind him… behind
him…
The Healer gasped, got to his feet as if in a daze, and stumbled forward. Across the
room was another Healer. The mask, the suit, it was unmistakable. He reached a hand
out towards his comrade, slow and dazed, and before he could react, he heard a crack,
and his arm erupted on him, sending him tumbling forward, his blood spraying out in
front, hitting the goggles on his mask.
Without thinking, he spun round with dazed ferocity and threw his machete out in
an arc. He stumbled to one knee, shocked by the sight of a thick and rough-looking
man, hidden behind the door, gun smoking slightly, the machete planted deep in his
chest.
“Shit,” he muttered in quiet Russian, and slumped back against the wall.
The Healer got back to his feet, turned towards the bed, towards the other Healer.
“How are you here?” he said, voice wavering with pain. “I am still on schedule. I
can still clear this up before the deadline…”
The other Healer shook his head urgently, climbed up on the bed, away, like he was
scared. The dead man slipped sideways, down off the bed, onto the floor. The Healer
stumbled to his knees next to the body, checked the mouth, the red eyes, the blood on
the shirt. He looked up at his comrade, faint.
“Was he the vector?” he asked, the room starting to spin.
The other Healer shook his head so urgently now, held his hand out to say no. And
then he spoke, and the Healer jerked backwards at the foreign sounds. He shook his
head as if to clear it, then heard an entirely different language again. And again,
painfully, a third time, and this time it made sense to him:
“Please don’t kill me!”
French. The Healer tried to stand, but slipped over, barely catching himself on the
bed.
273
“Who sent you here?” he asked in French, quiet, desperate.
The other Healer still seemed terrified, and it looked odd.
“I… I am from the Containment Office,” he said, his voice distorted through his
mask. “I was sent to arrest this man.”
“Arrest? What Office?”
“The British Containment Office,” came the reply. “In London. England.”
It took a moment, but the Healer laughed. He lowered his head and felt the world
go black, and then pulled himself back up to his feet. The British man moved further
away, terrified.
“What happened to this man?” the Healer said with increasing intensity.
“I don’t know,” said the other, shaking his head. “He just started bleeding… out of
his mouth, his eyes… it…there was no warning!”
The Healer looked at the dead man, saw the look of shock on his face. No warning.
“Did you inject him with anything?” he said, stepping closer to the British man.
“No! No, I just came and tested his blood. He had no diseases. Nothing that could
cause this!”
The Healer reached back towards his bag to remove his testing vials, and the other
man screamed, covering his head with his arms.
“There were others!” he shouted. “The wife and the stepdaughter!”
The Healer stopped, thought, then grabbed the British man by the neck, threw him
off the bed, onto the ground. He loomed over, felt the blood seeping inside his glove,
warm on his skin.
“Were they sick?” he boomed.
“The stepdaughter was. I don’t know what it was… it wasn’t registered…”
Then they heard it, both looking up towards the door at the same time. Distant,
probably on the stairwell, two voices calling to each other, the same words repeated.
“Police,” the Healer said quietly. “They will be here soon.”
He grabbed the man’s head in his large bloodied glove, lifting him up, making him
pay attention.
“Where did they go?” he demanded.
The British man feebly shook his head.
274
“I don’t know! Believe me, I don’t!”
The Healer tossed the bureaucrat to the ground, marched towards him, and the
man scattered back, standing, slipping and hitting the curtains of the far window, and
he pulled them round him for protection.
“Where did they go?” he asked again, bearing down.
The man cried, the sound so pitiful in his mask, and shook his head, holding on to
the curtain so tightly it nearly ripped free.
The Healer punched him in the throat, and the man bounced back into the window,
the glass cracking, and he dropped to his knees, gagging, trying to get air. The Healer
placed a menacing hand on the man’s head, squeezed, and then let the bitter fury
within him take over.
* * *
Sobotka saw the door first, riddled with holes, blood seeping through the hinged
corner. There were no lights on inside. She nodded to Crew, motioned him forward.
They stood on either side of the door now, guns at the ready, trying to get a sense
of what might be inside. Crew tried nudging the door a bit further open, but it was
blocked by something. They exchanged glances uncertainly.
“This is the police!” Crew shouted, shrugging to his partner. “If you move, we’ll kill
you.”
“Put your hands above your head!” added Sobotka, and Crew nodded
appreciatively.
There was a loud crash, and a pained scream, and then the sound of glass breaking,
falling, and Crew’s eyes opened so wide Sobotka had to put her hand out to steady him.
There was scraping, some clunking, and then, an uneasy silence, punctuated by gasps.
Sobotka took her hand from her gun and gave Crew a silent countdown:
3… 2… 1…
Crew moved into the room quickly, scanning left and arcing right, and Sobotka
covered him, checking for hostiles. There was a man covered in blood just by the bed,
the window was shattered out, the curtains fluttering in the wind, and the only thing
left was what Crew was now closing in on: the Healer, bloodied and beaten.
275
They circled him carefully, checking for weapons. He was on his knees, his cloak
soaked with blood, his hands in the air. He looked broken, almost sagging down,
swaying slightly, near death.
“Move a muscle and I’ll blow that mask off your head,” Crew said, completing his
circuit. Sobotka finished checking the room and joined him there.
“You’re under arrest,” Sobotka said sternly, and Crew shot her an angry look. She
squinted it away, motioned to the Healer. “I hope you’ve enjoyed yourself tonight,
because you’re going to pay for it for a long, long time.”
The Healer spoke, his voice weak, raspy almost, impossible to understand. He
gasped after a bit, stopped trying to talk, seemed too tired to continue. His arms were
slowly drifting downwards, his whole body collapsing in slow motion.
“Don’t move!” shouted Crew, and the Healer sat up straight again, shook his head
slightly.
“You’re being charged with, what… nine counts of murder?” Sobotka asked, her
gun not moving from its target.
Crew nodded to her.
“I’m going to check the window,” she said, and he nodded slightly again. She
backed up, keeping her gun ready, and as she reached the window, the curtains
brushing past her, she peered outside, saw it was snowing thickly now. She glanced
down onto the street below and saw a body there, red around it, lying distorted on the
ground.
“Make that ten counts,” she said, and looked back at the Healer.
He started to shake his head again, moved his hand down towards his chest, and
Crew backed up, kept his gun ready.
“Don’t do that!” he shouted angrily. “Don’t move any more!”
The Healer kept shaking his head, reached down, touched something on his belt,
and started pulling it forward, something rectangular, something…
“Don’t!” shouted Sobotka, but it was too late, he was pulling it up. Before she knew
what was happening, the dark room flashed brightly with gunfire, and she saw Crew’s
face flinching with satisfaction, fury and a bizarre kind of justice.
276
When the sound stopped, Crew and Sobotka stayed perfectly still and watched the
Healer crumple backwards onto the floor.
277
49
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva tore into the box, dropping a long tube into her trembling hand, rushing back
into the living room where the incubator had finished booting. She popped open the
lid, pushed the tube into place, and reloaded the file she’d been working on, the cure
to Nuremberg-6.
“It doesn’t matter if you kill me again,” Rhodri called to her from his spot on the
couch, his black jacket and trousers blazing against the fabric. “I’ll be here in person
soon, won’t I?”
Eva ignored him, pulled up the cure, and planted a finger on the start button. The
incubator began to churn, humming softly.
Then, from the bathroom, Eva heard a smash, a scream, and she dashed away from
the table, down the hall. Rhodri paced ahead of her, trying to put himself in her way,
and she shoved past, dodging this way and that, but he wouldn’t leave her alone until
she slammed into the door frame, catching her breath.
Her mother lay on the ground, cowering against an invisible foe, broken mirror
shards everywhere.
“Mama!” Eva said, rushing over. “Mama, you need to be careful here.”
Her mother looked up with watery eyes, reached a hand towards her daughter, and
then swivelled around, turning on the tap to the bathtub. Blood from her cut arm
dripped into the stream, making the base briefly pink.
“Shh, mama. Come on, we need to get back now,” Eva said, lifting her up.
Rhodri stood by the door, leaning with a smirk on his face, faked a yawn.
278
“Won’t be long now,” he said as she passed. “I’m about ready to reach out and touch
you. Are you looking forward to it?”
Eva sat her mother down on the sofa, wrapping her arms in bandages she found in
the closet, pushed her head down gently, trying to urge her to sleep. Her mother
sighed, rolled back and forth like she was having a nightmare, though her eyes were
open.
“Somebody find Eva… my poor Eva…” she gasped all to herself.
Eva checked the progress on the incubator: nearly done. Warm hands once again
stroked her neck, her shoulders, and she hit them away, refusing to pay attention.
“I’ll be here soon,” Rhodri said softly. “In the flesh, where you can’t avoid me. Any
minute now…”
Eva squeezed her eyes shut, pushed the voice away in her mind. Then she heard a
knock at the door. A knock at the door! She froze, hands clasping the desk desperately.
She stayed perfectly still, listened, waited.
The knock returned, more urgent this time.
“Come on, Eva!” sang Rhodri. “I’m waiting! Let me in!”
Eva pressed her head against the door, afraid to look. She heard noises from
outside: feet shifting, pacing. She peered through the peephole, trembling, afraid. At
first she saw nothing… and then… she saw a woman, black and just as scared as she
was.
“Who is it?” Eva called out. The woman turned, pushed both hands against the
door, seemed so relieved to hear a voice.
“I’m from the hospital,” she replied. “My name is Fanta Anouma. I’m a doctor
there. We… I need your help.”
Eva slammed her head into the door, grit her teeth.
“Go away!” she shouted. “I can’t help you! Just go away!”
Anouma shook her head, seemed so desperate. She pushed a feeble fist against the
door.
“Please! I saw you with the incubator! I need your help! My brother is dying and
there’s no one else who will help him!”
Eva turned her head from the door, saw Rhodri. He shrugged, disinterested.
279
“What makes you think I can help you?” she called out, and there was a long pause
before Anouma answered.
“Maybe you can, maybe you cannot. But that incubator has the power to cure my
brother, and maybe stop the outbreak that has quarantined half the hospital. I have to
try!”
The door popped open a touch, Eva looked out nervously.
“What outbreak?”
“We don’t know. It seems to cause hallucinations. Bad ones. Virtual insanity in the
afflicted.”
“Hmm, sounds familiar…” hummed Rhodri, running a finger down Eva’s cheek.
Eva opened the door wide, ushered Anouma in, closed and locked them in. She
paced towards the incubator just as it finished processing, and it spat out another
container with the orange lid. Eva took it in her hand, held it up to Anouma.
“This will cure your outbreak,” she said, confident.
Anouma reached a cautious hand out, incredulous…
“But how did you…”
“Never mind that. I’ll make more. But first, I need to give this to my…” Eva turned,
saw the empty sofa, and nearly dropped the container. “Mama? Mama!”
She saw a streak of blood on the wall near the bathroom, and took off. She and
Anouma tripped into the bathroom to find Eva’s mother, face-first into the full
bathtub, arms floating loose at her sides.
“Oops!” Rhodri cackled.
“Mama!” Eva screamed, and pulled her mother out, laying her on the floor.
Anouma pushed in, leaned close and listened.
“She’s not breathing. Tilt her head.”
Eva pushed behind her mother’s neck, and Anouma began CPR, pumping,
breathing, pumping, breathing, until Eva lost track of it all, just sat back and cried
while her mother lay there, unconscious and fading further away.
Rhodri ran a hand down her thigh, and she pushed him.
“Leave me the fuck alone!” she screamed, and Anouma paused, looked at her,
concerned.
280
“Who are you…?” she began.
“Just help her,” Eva begged, filtering Rhodri out as best she could. “Please!”
Anouma pushed down on the chest again, and this time, suddenly, water bubbled
up and out of the mouth, and Eva’s mother choked, gasped, spat and was rolled to her
side, and she vomited bile and water onto the floor. Anouma rubbed her back, eyeing
Eva cautiously.
“Mama? Can you hear me? Are you okay?” Eva pleaded, down on her hands and
knees next to her pale mother.
“Eva?” came the reply. “Eva, my baby… she’s in the tub. Somebody has to find her,
please!”
Eva pushed her forehead into the ground, let out a rattled breath. When she looked
up, Anouma was staring at her seriously.
“You have the virus too,” she said. “You both do.”
Eva nodded weakly, said nothing.
“Are you sure this cure works?” Anouma asked.
“I’m sure,” Eva said seriously, getting to her feet. “And I can prove it to you.”
She ran out of the bathroom, down to her mother’s office, throwing junk aside until
she found a box of needles. She ran back to the bathroom, uncapped the container,
filled the syringe, and without a moment’s hesitation, injected her mother with the
cure.
* * *
Crew and Sobotka sat on the bed in the dead man’s room. Sobotka put her gun in
her holster, rubbed her temple, trying to massage out a pending headache.
“That went well,” she said, gloomy.
Crew snorted, then laughed. He got to his feet, stretched out and sighed loudly.
“Let’s do a quick check and get back after the girl,” he said. “I’m all done with my
case now, so we might as well do yours too. We can leave this mess to the crime lab.”
He bent down over the Healer’s body, peeled back bits of fabric, investigating the
body. Sobotka got to her feet, did a brief look around, nudged some things with a pen,
but didn’t touch anything.
281
“God it stinks in here,” she gagged. “Too much blood.”
She pushed out to the window, leaning into the night air, the curtains flapping at
either side.
“So you really think the Healer was behind this? I mean, he did kill a lot of people
here tonight, but if he’s going to do that, why would he bother making a virus at all?”
she asked, leaning out, looking at the body on the sidewalk again.
“Maybe he’s just a nut job,” said Crew, tossing bits of paper from the body,
obviously not concerned with disturbing the crime scene. “Anyone that dresses like
this has got to be at least a little bit nutty.”
Sobotka laughed, turned back to the room, but then did a double-take, spinning
round and looking out again… there, a glint on the drainpipe outside. She looked
further down, saw a clear streak of red down the drainpipe. The body in the snow. The
drainpipe again. They weren’t in the same direction.
“Those two don’t connect…” she muttered. “Uh, Crew… I think we have a problem
here.”
She turned round to her partner, stopped dead. Crew’s face was white. He looked
up at her, blinking.
“Oh yeah,” he said. “I think so too.”
He held out a small leather wallet, flipped open to a bright white card. Sobotka
couldn’t read it, but didn’t need to. In the top left corner was a very obvious Union
Jack.
* * *
The door exploded open, showering the room with fragments of wood, and the
Healer stumbled in, his arm bandaged with red-soaked gauze, clutched by a desperate
hand. Anouma got to her feet, pushing Eva back, away.
“I told you to stay in the stairwell!” Anouma said, urgently.
Eva shot a confused and horrified looked to the doctor.
“You’re with this monster?”
“Oh, this is getting good,” chuckled Rhodri.
The Healer shoved Anouma aside, into the refrigerator.
282
“Talking is too slow,” came his weakened voice, distorted and delirious. He walked
past Eva without effort, kneeling down at the edge of the sofa, where her mother was
laying, eyes open, almost alert. With his one good hand, he grabbed her by the chin,
tilted her head up, looked at her eyes. His hands were shaking, and although he was
bandaged heavily, he was still dripping bright red blood on the floor.
Eva stepped forward aggressively.
“Stop that!” she shouted in French, clenching her fists. The Healer turned his head
to her, and her confidence melted.
“Where is her blood?” he demanded. Eva glanced to Anouma, then back to the
Healer, and sneered.
“Why do you need it?” she asked, defiant.
He let go of her mother, lurched into a turn and bore down on Eva. She clenched
her jaw, kept her eyes on his, and held her ground. He looked at her, a blank fury
growling from his mask.
“I do not have time to play games,” he said, his voice faltering slightly. “Give me
her blood or I will take it myself. My way.”
Eva’s eye twitched.
“You leave her alone,” she said to him, a warning.
“I will do as I please,” he said, and Anouma stepped forward again to protest, but
he held his hand out to her to stop her. “Give me the blood now!”
“It won’t do you any good!” Eva yelled. “I’ve already cured her! There’s no virus left
for you to diagnose!”
Behind her, the incubator deposited another container of serum. Her eyes darted
towards it very carefully, trying not to show.
“Who is that for?” he asked her, ominous.
Eva watched him carefully, then made a mad dash for the incubator, grabbing
towards the container, trying to get it before… the Healer pulled her shoulder, threw
her onto the floor in the back of the kitchen. Her sprained wrist screamed out at her,
and she cradled it urgently.
The Healer loomed over her, pulling a grey device from his pack.
“Give me your arm or I will cut it off and test it that way,” he said.
283
Eva looked to Anouma, who seemed just as scared as she did. She held out her arm,
terrified, and the Healer placed the device to her. She felt a prick, a tug, and her blood
seeped away, into the machine that purred softly as it worked. He turned away,
watching it intently.
Eva got to her feet, shaky, and Rhodri was there beside her, whispering in her ear:
“The knife, Eva. The knife. Cut his heart out with a knife, like you would for me.”
Eva saw the knife there beside the rotting carrot, and she reached a cautious hand
over, slipped it away, kept it close. The Healer fell against the counter, stood straight
again, leaving a red mark where he’d been. He kept watching his display, waiting.
Oblivious to anything else.
Finally, the answer came, and Eva watched him carefully as his expressionless face
stayed locked down. Slowly at first, he started to shake his head more broadly, and
then she heard the creak of plastic in his hands, and he savagely ripped the empty vial
from the bottom and threw it across the room, into a mirror, which shattered loudly
onto the floor.
“A new strain!” he shouted, coughing at the force of his own voice.
Eva acted: she flipped the knife around in her hand and swung it in a quick, precise
arc at the Healer’s neck.
He caught her arm in mid-swing, did not even turn to look. Eva trembled at the
force of his rough glove on her wrist, her hand unable to move in for the kill. She
ground her teeth, tried to will it forward, but it was no use. She watched him, helpless.
He turned his head, looked at her calmly.
“I am done with games,” he said, and squeezed her arm, her hand releasing the
knife against her will. She didn’t make a sound; he made no more movements, just
stayed there, holding her tightly.
Anouma came to his side, put a hand on his shoulder, carefully, like she was scared
what he might do to her, too.
“Please don’t,” she said, her voice soft and trembling.
He shook his head, slowly, dizzily.
“No, she carries a new strain. It must be contained. I have my directives…”
284
“But I found the cure!” Eva exclaimed, tears in her eyes. “I’ve already saved two
people, and I can do more! You don’t need to do this!”
The Healer froze, he let go of her arm, but she didn’t move it, not sure what he
might do. He looked slowly to the incubator, then round at Eva, his bloody goggles still
a frightening sight.
“You cured the man Daniels?” he asked, and Eva’s breath stopped in her lungs.
“How did you…?”
“Did you cure him first?”
“Y-y-yes, maybe an hour ago…” she said, tense. “What did you do to him?”
The Healer looked away from her, stared at her mother, didn’t move.
“Nothing,” he said, and she breathed again, feeling less tension, less anxiety. “He
was already dead.”
The ground spun for Eva, and she fell backwards against the counter, slid down it,
put her head in her hands and tried to get her breathing back under her control. There
was a thumping in her ears and she couldn’t focus. The Healer stood over her, blood
dripping from his arm onto the ground next to her.
“Was he bleeding before you treated him?” he barked.
Eva had trouble focusing. She shook her head vaguely, unsure.
“I must see your cure,” said the Healer, his voice gaining strength. He pulled the
container from the side of the incubator, held it towards Eva. “Is this it?”
Eva didn’t look, just nodded blankly. She felt so cold.
He put the vial into his device and pushed another button, staring at the display as
if were the only thing in the world to see. Eva’s gaze shifted from the Healer to her
mother, then to Rhodri, who sat next to her, kissing her ear softly. Then… then back to
her mother. She was staring past her at the countertop, blinking, somehow different
than before.
Suddenly, the Healer dropped his device on the ground, and it cracked on impact.
He made no other moves, just stood there, his hand open, frozen. He spoke something
to himself, a hiss, that Eva had no concept of understanding. He clenched his fist,
lowered his head and shook it.
Anouma looked up to him, reached a hand up to his.
285
“What is it?” she asked.
He looked past her, at Eva.
“She will die too,” he said without inflection. “Same as Daniels. Massive
hemorrhaging. It cannot be stopped. Your cure is too effective.”
And with that, he straightened himself up, groaned, and grabbed the last of the
serum off the table. He grunted as he slid it into his belt, and then with a deep breath,
lurched towards the door, his body giving out on him so quickly he looked like he might
disintegrate at the threshold. Eva leapt to her feet, started after the Healer, shouting:
“Stop! You have to do something!”
The Healer turned, his breaths uneven and wheezy while he looked at her.
“I have no solutions,” he said quietly. “Only the one you do not want.”
Eva watched the Healer as he stood there, patiently delaying his own death for her,
and she nodded to him, horribly.
“End it,” she pleaded quietly. “Please.”
The Healer nodded gravely, turned and stumbled back to the counter. He removed
a blue pouch from his pack and placed it on the countertop and unrolled it carefully,
leaving bloody prints all over it. Eva looked away, and Rhodri moved in to kiss her. She
closed her eyes at it, and felt the brush of his beard on her lips, the softness. She buried
her head down, gasped for air, trying to block out whatever sounds she might hear.
“Eva,” said her mother quietly. “It’s done, Eva.”
She opened her eyes, blinked. Her mother sat on the sofa, a gentle smile on her
face, her arm still out where the Healer had killed her. She motioned for Eva to come,
and she obeyed, sitting on the sofa too, as if in a dream. Even Rhodri stayed distant,
giving them space.
“Mama, I’m so sorry…” she sobbed, pushing her head into her mother’s arms. “I’m
so sorry…”
“Shhh now, Eva. It’s not your fault.”
Her mother put her hand on the side of Eva’s face, brushed her cheek softly, and
she met her eyes, calm and forgiving.
“I’ll be fine,” she said, her smile radiant, comforting. “I’m just glad I got to say
good-bye first.”
286
Eva cried, gasped for air.
“I should have said no,” Eva said darkly. “I should have trusted my instincts. I knew
this wouldn’t work. I didn’t know what I was doing, and it killed you! I killed you!”
Her mother closed her eyes now, seemed to be feeling something, her smile faded
slightly. But she spoke:
“The reason… the reason I kept Richard from hiring you, Eva, was because I knew
how terrible it can be to make mistakes in this field. It’s not what I’d wish upon you.
It’s not what I’d wish upon anyone. And you’ve already suffered enough for the
mistakes you’ve made in life.”
Her mother began to shake. A low, subtle shake, but it shook her whole body, and
Eva held tight.
“Eva,” she gasped. “You did well. I’m proud of you. Don’t let my death crush your
spirit. You have to live on… you have to learn from your mistakes and do better…
promise me…”
Eva cried, nodded.
“I promise, mama,” she whispered.
“Good,” said her mother, a slight smile on her face, but her eyes seeing nothing.
“Good.”
And then she jerked slightly, then again, backwards onto the back of the sofa, and
started to seize more violently, her eyes rolling back in her head and a few strained
gasps coming from her mouth. Eva tried to hold her, somehow stop it, the sounds
ripping her apart. And then her mother calmed suddenly, she exhaled, and Eva did
too, her lungs aching from the endless pause.
No one moved for a moment, and the sound of the room took time to come flooding
back. Eva’s hands were shaking, and she squeezed them together to try and regain her
composure.
She looked to the Healer, who stood by the door, leaning on it for support.
“I need to destroy that cure,” he said. “It’s too dangerous.”
He shook his head, took a step backwards in the open space of the doorway.
“Make a new version,” he said, swaying slightly. “You can stop the outbreak if you
hurry. Check the cure against your own blood and you’ll see.”
287
“But what about…”
“I will keep this one,” he said, and it was not up for discussion. “I have one last use
for it.”
288
50
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
“What are you going to do?” Anouma called to the Healer as he made his way down
the back stairwell at Eva’s building.
He lost his balance briefly, hit the wall and left a dark red smear. He put his other
foot down to the next step, but it missed the edge and he stumbled down, landing on
his weakened elbow, and the spots overtook his vision. He shook his head again and
again, trying to regain control.
He got to his feet, used his good arm to guide himself down the steps, watching his
footing carefully.
“What are you doing?” Anouma shouted, stopping a few steps up.
The Healer came to a rest, turned to face her, but missed her face.
“I am going to cure your brother.”
* * *
The blood trail led to the front of a building Sobotka and Crew knew well, so when
they came within a few houses, they leapt out of Crew’s car and sprinted the rest of the
way, guns drawn. An old woman stood in the hallway around the corner, staring at
fragments of a broken door. She was dressed in a night gown, slippers, seemed
confused and concerned.
“I haven’t called you yet,” she said to them.
“Go back inside, ma’am,” said Sobotka, edging closer to the door.
289
“She really is a nice girl,” the woman said, her mind switching gears and tones
suddenly. “Just like her mother. A real beauty.”
Sobotka nodded to the woman, trying to be patient, but Crew had no tact left: he
grabbed her night gown and dragged her back, threw her into her apartment, and
closed the door. The two of them stayed by the broken door, guns ready.
“Police!” Sobotka called. “Keep your hands in the air and do not move!”
“I’m alone!” cried Eva from inside, and they checked each other, confused.
Sobotka peeked around the corner cautiously, then led herself and Crew in, making
a sweep of the rooms. Eva’s mother lay dead on the sofa, blood all over the kitchen, a
knife, footprints and water everywhere… and there sat Eva at the coffee table, hands
flying madly across the trackpad of an incubator.
“Ms Kolikov, what are you—”
“Listen,” Eva said, eyes glued to the screen, “I need you to shut up. You can arrest
me and beat me up all you like, but I’ve got to finish what I’m doing.”
Sobotka put her gun away, edged around the side. Crew kept his weapon out, but
aimed at the floor, frowning.
“What are you doing?”
“There’s an outbreak at the hospital, I have to cure it before it spreads.”
“How do you know about the outbreak?” Sobotka asked.
“One of the doctors told me. Now seriously, shut up so I can concentrate!”
Sobotka slid over next to Crew, spoke in a hushed voice.
“She’s telling the truth?”
“Could be that Anouma woman I was looking for. She’s a friend of the Healer’s.
Still, Kolikov and an incubator can’t be a good combination.”
Sobotka watched Eva a moment, twitched an eye.
“Call in to the hospital and see what their status is. I don’t trust her, but I don’t
want to shut this down if it can help.”
Crew nodded reluctantly, headed to the hall with his phone. Sobotka crouched next
to Eva, watched her working. A tourniquet was still strung tight around her arm, a
small drip falling around to her elbow. Eva was handling a small vial of blood,
searching the side of the machine, probing with shaking hands.
290
“I can’t figure out where this thing goes in…” she cursed, slamming her bandaged
arm on the table in frustration and then cursing some more.
Sobotka took the vial from her, darted around the side of the machine, saw a port
there, and pushed the vial in. It clicked solidly, then the incubator rotated the blood
out of sight, and began to purr.
“Thanks,” Eva said, eyes darting wildly. “I’m having a hard time focusing right
now.”
An alert popped onto the screen:
CUSTOM BLOOD SAMPLE DETECTED.
OVERRIDE LOCALE SETTINGS?
Eva accepted the change, and threw herself into cracking the virus code once more.
* * *
The Healer burst into Adjobi’s room, Anouma close behind, and came to a sudden
stop at the base of the bed. Adjobi sat up, wary and weary and somehow sicker than
before as the Healer pulled another needle from his bag and started filling it with
serum. His arm was stiff and awkward, and he struggled to hold himself steady.
“Do you know what this is?” he asked as he filled the syringe. “This is the cure to
the disease you sent me after.”
Adjobi seemed surprised by this, tried to sit up.
“Really…” he said, his eyes wide with curiosity, but still fear.
“Yes,” said the Healer, pulling the needle free and holding it ready. “It has killed
two people already. Let us try for three.”
He plunged the needle into Adjobi’s arm and pushed the plunger down, and Adjobi
groaned loudly, jerked suddenly but couldn’t fight the strength of the Healer.
“No!” Anouma screamed, pounding on the Healer’s back, until he was done, pulled
the needle free, and stepped back. Anouma collapsed to the floor, weeping.
The Healer felt a powerful release, he stumbled, caught on to the railing at the side
of the bed, and leaned on it, transferring all his reliance there, all the strength he’d
291
been drawing suddenly gone. His suit was whining in his ear that he was too excited,
but he already knew.
Adjobi looked down at the needle mark in his arm, the blood dripping around and
onto the sheets, and then looked up at the Healer with a calm stare. And then, ever so
slightly, he smiled.
Anouma saw her brother, saw his expression, and her crying trailed off. She got to
her knees, took his hand, but he pulled it away, his smile turning into a smirk.
The Healer stumbled, held on to the bed tighter.
“You have no vector,” he said to Adjobi, faint and tired. “You are the vector.”
Anouma looked from Adjobi to the Healer, then back, her crying stopped, her
mouth ajar, trying to understand what was going on.
“What are you talking about?” she gasped. “He’s sick, he was infected by… by
someone else… he’s the victim! And you’ve killed him!”
The Healer didn’t listen to her. He was watching Adjobi, saw the sickly man start
to laugh, laugh so awkwardly it was painful. And then, finally, when Adjobi calmed
himself enough, he looked at the Healer with intense anger.
“You are clever,” he said. “But I would bet you’re too late.”
* * *
Crew burst back in the room, eyes wide with fear or excitement.
“Sestak just passed down the order… they’re going to gas the hospital! We’ve got
to move!”
Eva and Sobotka both gaped.
“They’re what?”
“Sestak’s afraid of a major outbreak across the city. He’s full-on paranoid from the
sound of it. They’ve sealed the doors and the army is moving in to gas and burn the
place down. The captain’s ordered us there to provide backup. In case anyone makes
it outside.”
“Are they insane?” Sobotka yelled, getting to her feet furiously. “All those people…
there are over ten thousand people in there!”
292
Eva kept moving blocks around, pushing the cure further, watching the antibodies
in her blood react horribly to every option she threw at it.
“I can fix this,” she said, mostly to herself. “Just give me five minutes. I can fix it,
and we can stop the outbreak. I just need five minutes of quiet. Please.”
Sobotka looked to Crew, who didn’t seem keen on the idea. She looked back to Eva.
“You’ve got five minutes,” she said.
Eva nodded, then flinched, jabbed her elbow out and to the side.
“Fuck off!” she spat.
Sobotka and Crew took a cautious step backwards.
“What’s going on?” Sobotka asked.
Eva didn’t look up, rolled her eyes as she worked.
“I’m gonna say some strange things for the next little while,” she said darkly. “Don’t
worry about it. It’s not going to be around for much longer.”
Eva ran the test, saw the familiar shapes falling and disappearing as her cure broke
down Nuremberg-6. But instead of leaving no traces, the screen warned her:
ANTIBODY CONFLICT. SEE REPORT.
She clicked through, and her jaw dropped open at the sight.
“Oh shit,” she gasped.
“What?” demanded Sobotka. “What’s wrong?”
“The cure, it leaves stupid little fragments in the blood, stuff that doesn’t do any
harm. Simple compounds. See? These little grey squares. They shouldn’t impact
anything. They didn’t impact anything when I ran this before.”
Sobotka leaned in, couldn’t see what Eva was seeing.
“So what’s different?”
“There’s something in my blood that’s not in the incubator’s base profile.
Something I’ve got that isn’t standard, or wasn’t standard when they made this thing.
Something my mother, Richard, and probably you and everyone else in this city…
something we’ve all got in common. The cure is making things worse! It’s too perfect…
it’s a trap, and I fell for it!”
293
* * *
The Healer threw the syringe across the room, tried to fight the urge to strangle
the man.
“This is no game!” he shouted.
“No it isn’t!” growled Adjobi, trying to sit up. “This is far too sad to be a game! You,
all of you, worrying over these people, with their home-made sickness, hoping to God
that you can save them, find them a cure! This is no game… this is a farce! And you
need to see why!”
Anouma gasped, let go of Adjobi, looked to the Healer, her face so overcome she
had no expression. The Healer composed himself, stepped back from the bed, had to
focus.
“You created a virus, designed it brilliantly,” he said. “So the cure, the treatment,
would be lethal.”
Adjobi smiled proudly now.
“It was not easy,” he said simply.
“But it won’t hurt you,” the Healer growled. “Because your blood is missing the
compound it needs to kill. The compounds that survive attach to something already
there, create a new virus with them. A deadly one. A terrible one. What is it? What are
you targeting?”
Adjobi closed his eyes, rested his head back, and took a deep breath. Anouma was
now further away, looking shocked, confused.
“Four years ago,” said Adjobi, his voice weaker now, distant. “Four years ago I met
a girl. Beautiful woman, so perfect. So perfect I knew I must win her, marry her, keep
her close. You met her, Anouma. Do you remember? Nowa?”
Anouma nodded, like in a dream.
“We were happy,” he said, his eyes still closed. “For a time. And then, one day, one
day she got sick, and the doctors told us: AIDS. Can you believe it? AIDS! But I… I
don’t know, we were so young, so naïve, we thought it would be all right. There were
drugs, weren’t there? Treatments? They’d had them for years, hadn’t they? We’d be all
right.”
294
Adjobi opened his eyes, looked straight into the soul of the Healer.
“She died,” he said, his voice a whisper. “she died of AIDS, a disease dead outside
Africa, all because the vaccine stopped being made. It wasn’t vital anymore! There were
new threats! Greater threats! And my Nowa died in her bed for nothing! Nothing but
weakness and greed and throwing a whole continent to the dogs!”
Adjobi pointed a trembling finger at the Healer.
“A disease is not dead until it is wiped from the face of the whole planet.”
He clenched his hand into a fist, shook it slightly, and exhaled, his long, painful
secret finally gone.
“The cure targets the AIDS vaccine,” gasped the Healer.
* * *
Rhodri held her tight, caressing her body as he nuzzled her ear. Eva didn’t even
flinch, pushing blocks around, watching the fallout, watching the changes as they shot
across the screen. Stroke, paralysis, kidney failure… they came and went as fast as her
hands would move.
“Why don’t you give it up so we can have some fun?” Rhodri whispered. “I can
make it worth your while.”
“Stop yakking. I’m busy here.”
He cupped her breasts in his hands, kissed her neck.
“I wonder how long until you can’t see the screen anymore, and you’re mine
forever?” he said, licking gently.
Eva dropped a blue square into place, and then the results came through…
WARNING:
PATIENT DEVELOPS MILD FEVER
She grinned, looked Rhodri clear in the face, kissed him back.
“Say goodnight, fucker.”
She ran off, down the hall, into her mother’s office, and pulled out the other two
boxes of refill tubes, got halfway back to the living room when she noticed they were
295
damp at the bottom. She stopped midway, mouth gaping, dumped the contents. The
tubes were nearly empty. Cracked. Leaking. Lost.
“Oh no,” he gasped as Rhodri held her from behind.
“What’s wrong?” Sobotka asked, getting to her feet. “What are those?”
“The refills… we don’t have any more refills. I can only make one more batch of
this stuff.”
“How many can it treat?” asked Crew.
Eva lowered her head, felt Rhodri on her neck, felt a shiver.
“Just one. The fix is contagious in its current form, but there’s no way we’d cover
everyone fast enough. There’s just no way…”
They stood in silence. Rhodri held her tight, so tight, she felt it hard to breathe. The
room started to grey around her, disappear into her mind like a dream she was waking
from. She stumbled forward, onto her knees, and Rhodri was before her, kneeling too,
white shirt undone, biting his lip, his dead eyes shining with glee.
“Can you feel it, Eva? Can you feel the end? It’s coming. I can tell it’s coming. Soon
you’ll be mine forever.”
“I’ve still got the last dose. I can use it and burn you alive.”
“You’re not going to use the last dose on yourself, are you? And let all those people
die?”
Eva stared him dead in the eye, and he kissed her. She tried to fight it, but it was
so… so… she felt herself kissing back, felt his hands on her cheeks his body pressing
against hers, and she shuddered, let him run his lips down her neck.
“Can you feel it?” he sang softly. “There’s love in the air…”
And she paused.
“The air!” she gasped, and shoved him off, scrambling to the table, pushing past
the grey, dancing fingers on the trackpad as he pulled her waist, tried to draw her back.
She scoured the screen, found it under the ‘Advanced’ menu… down at the bottom…
“Make Aerosolized”.
* * *
296
“Every man, woman and child in Europe, the Americas, the East... they’re all
targets!” boomed the Healer. “You would kill a whole world of people out of revenge?”
“Their suffering’s just as real to me, as mine is to them.”
The Healer didn’t say anything for a moment.
“Adjobi…” said Anouma, stepping closer. “you couldn’t…”
“No?” spat her brother, giving her an icy stare. “No? I would gladly fear the poison
I made if it meant I’d been protected like the others in this wretched city! I’m dying of
AIDS, Fanta, and there is no one in the world that will help me! Oh, I made the trigger,
but they made the weapon! Let them burn, I say! Let them all burn!”
The Healer’s temper flared suddenly. He smashed one of the heart monitors
against the wall so hard its casing shattered, and he threw the wreckage to the ground
savagely.
“You made me your accomplice!” he shouted. “Kwong’s blood was tainted too! You
set a trap and let me poison my own people!”
Adjobi laughed a bit, looked at the Healer, sickly again.
“Don’t worry,” he said. “You’re not alone. I’ve been working towards this for
months.”
Anouma gasped, trembling.
“What do you mean? I thought we were here to help, Adjobi… I thought we were—
”
“Oh, we were. And at first, I was like you, Fanta. I thought this was the most noble
calling in the world. I knew my time would run out, but I wanted to die doing
something good for the world. I had no regrets.
“But then one day, I met a man with a different sort of mission. He wasn’t content
to just treat the symptoms, he wanted to cut the viruses down, here, in the field. We
worked together, this Daniels and his partner. We found things nobody else would see
for months, and we fixed them, Fanta. We saved so many lives.
“He had an incubator, and as I learned to use it, I realized I had it in my power to
cure my AIDS, to patch your blood and save us both. Daniels was a pharmaceutical
executive, so he’d have access to the vaccines. I asked him over and over again, and
297
finally he told me he couldn’t help… he wouldn’t help, because it would get him caught,
and our whole operation would fall apart.”
The Healer bowed his head, drifting. Anouma backed further away, terrified.
“I couldn’t stand it, Fanta,” Adjobi continued. “I couldn’t stand that he had the cure
there, within his reach, and he denied it to me. It was too much. So I began learning
the second function of the incubator, learned how to mix compounds badly, learned
how to create poisons out of vaccines. I produced flawed results at the start, but I
learned and improved.
“Their agents abroad, I took their compounds and made subtle tweaks. I broke
their solutions and sent them back, ready to kill. Then they came to me, they asked:
‘How did this happen, Adjobi? How did it go so wrong?’, and I pleaded ignorance, said
all was well when I saw the files last.
“Really, I was hoping Daniels would do as he promised, send my cures back to his
company’s database, have them distributed around the world in one of those
godforsaken boosters. Think of the carnage. Think of the justice!”
“That is not justice!” roared the Healer, staggering backward. “That is genocide!”
“Oh, that’s rich, coming from you! I’m not half the monster you are! Even when the
outbreak downstairs claims half the city, my conscience is like untouched snow next
to yours!”
“The outbreak…” Anouma gasped. “That was you?”
“It’s not a long walk to the supply room, Fanta,” he smiled. “And all it takes is a few
millilitres of the virus to do the trick. In the coffee of a co-worker, a nip in the arm, a
small prick in the IV bag.”
Anouma lowered her head, crying now.
“This was all supposed to take a very different path,” Adjobi said, sighing. “But I
knew my time was running out, and Dr Kolikov saw the signature from those fools at
the university in my work. The ones I hired to cover my tracks, and it lead her right to
me. She started to investigate… I had to change things. I admit, I was afraid I wouldn’t
be able to see this through to the end… but I didn’t expect I’d get such a gift as you,” he
said to the Healer, who stared at him, ragged. “You gave me a unique opportunity to
become a very powerful vector.”
298
He grinned uncontrollably.
“I hope I will live to see the cure,” he said, faking his earlier, weaker voice. “Oh,
how I pray I will see the cure.”
The Healer stepped back from the bed, looked at Anouma, then back at Adjobi. He
faltered, fell to his knees, slipped forward, but clung to the bed rails, pulled himself up,
sliding the blue pouch out on the bed.
“I’m ready now,” Adjobi said, lifting his arm up to the Healer. “Finish your duty
before you die, Healer. I am ready to go.”
* * *
The car slid sideways through the turn, almost hitting a lamp post, Crew spinning
the wheel furiously, punching the gas, trying to get back on track. Ice shot off the
windshield and into the buildings around them, smashing into a bright mist.
“Slow down, idiot!” shouted Sobotka, gripping the passenger seat door desperately.
“It’s November!” Crew yelled. “I don’t slow down till January!”
Between them, Eva sat, doubled over, hands on the sides of her face, pulling her
skin down madly. Rhodri was curled around her back, arms moving fluidly over her
body, his mouth across her skin, everywhere, exposed or not, drawing her into the grey
again. She trembled, muttered into her lap, soft and urgent.
“It’s all in my head. It’s not real, I know it’s not real.”
“Are you sure?” Rhodri asked smoothly as he licked her neck. “I seem real to me.”
“You’re dead. I killed you, and you’re dead.”
“Richard said I was still alive. And I’m coming for you. You should be happy…”
He held her tighter, and she felt warm, shuddered, leaned her head back and let
him kiss her shoulders, her neck, feeling so warm… She squeezed her eyes shut to push
him away. She heard nothing but him, but refused to lose sight of the world around
her.
The car shot forwards, around another turn, and they saw it: barricades ahead.
Four soldiers in full masks, guarding the entrance to the hospital. Sobotka winced.
“Is there another way in?” she asked.
“Yeah,” said Crew, switching gears. “Faster.”
299
The soldiers didn’t have time to react. The Aston-Martin shot through the singlebeam barricade, throwing wood and yellow lights in all directions. Crew didn’t check
the mirror to see what they’d done, he just pushed his foot straight to the floor they
careened into the old emergency bay, skidding in a large arc, coming to a halt right
next to the doors. Sobotka knocked her head on the car frame as the inertia left, looked
to Crew with wide-open eyes.
“Don’t do that again.”
They got out of the car, hearing shouts in the distance as the soldiers gave chase,
grabbed Eva by the arm and pushed into the foyer. Crew motioned to the great wooden
doors, wrapped in yellow tape, a padlock across the handles.
“Shit, they’re competent all of a sudden!” he cursed.
“Stand back!” Sobotka yelled, pulled her gun out, took aim and the padlock
exploded off the doors. Crew wrenched them open, stumbled into the mass of
hysterical and dying patients, all clawing off their beds, trying to escape, falling apart
at the sights and sounds of their worst nightmares. Sobotka staggered back, watching
a nurse flail desperately as five bloodstained figures tried to drag her into a side room,
wailing madly.
Bastien stormed towards them, mask nearly off his face, bloody slashes on his
cheeks.
“You fools! Get out of here! It’s not safe!”
Crew held him back before the old doctor could reach them.
“They’re going to torch this place, doc. You know that, right?”
Bastien barely registered the news, nodded gravely.
“If they must. We’re ready to make that sacrifice.”
“Well I’m not!” shouted Sobotka, and then a staggering patient threw her off her
feet and onto the ground.
Eva stumbled forward, Rhodri tugging at her pants, punched him away, but
missed. She gasped, half-seeing the mess in the room. A lunatic like the beast from the
university came at her, and she hit him across the side of the head, and unlike Rhodri,
he collapsed down, scampering away. She fell onto her back, felt Rhodri climb on top
of her, lean over her, feet pushing her legs apart.
300
“We never did have that last afternoon off,” he said, his voice quiet yet somehow
louder than the pandemonium around them. “But now’s as good a time as any…”
Eva tried to turn her head from him, but he held her jaw with clutching hands,
slammed her skull down onto the floor once as he kissed her, clawing angrily, holding
her hostage. She fought, but he pinned her hand, kept her legs spread, and she couldn’t
win, she couldn’t… she…
… she saw them.
“Sobotka!” she yelled through Rhodri, through everything, though she couldn’t see
anything but him. “The fans! Use the fans!”
Sobotka pushed past Bastien, running to the row of switches by the door, pushed
them all on. The lights above came to life, bathing them in a warm glow… and then,
slowly, creaking, all the overhead fans began to move… swirling faster and faster.
Eva pulled the container from her pocket, fighting Rhodri’s strong grip, held it out
with a trembling gaze towards Crew, who kept an uneasy distance, not understanding
what she was seeing. She pushed against Rhodri, knocked him off, held the container
up further.
“Hurry…” she whispered, and he took it.
“Sobotka!” Crew yelled, twisting the cap off the container, hands trembling.
“Ready!”
“Go!” she called, and he threw the container into the air, over the beds, into the
centre of the room. Sobotka watched it float, almost weightless, for what seemed like
an eternity. And then, like a dandelion in the wind, the white dust inside began flowing
out and into the air.
* * *
The Healer took a weak step back.
“Kill me!” Adjobi screamed. “I’m dead anyway! Do it!”
The Healer steadied himself, hand gripping the blue pouch, the deadly serum.
He stared evenly at Adjobi.
“No,” he said, and the sick man froze. “Mercy is not my commission.”
301
Adjobi started forward, but the Healer shoved him back into bed with a bloodied
hand, suddenly strong again, suddenly dominating. Terrifying.
“You will die here in this bed, as slow as your disease takes you. I will not be an
instrument in your game any longer. I will not be an instrument for anyone’s lunatic
fantasies!”
Anouma stepped towards him, hand out, pausing…
“You will die. Your end will come slowly, and painfully, and there will be nothing
you can do to ease your suffering. Because when all your caretakers are dead and
buried by the carnage you wrought, there will be no one left to help you.”
And with that, the Healer turned, and walked towards the door. He heard a quick
sob, and then Anouma ran after him, catching him in the hallway. She put a hand on
his shoulder, and he let himself be turned around.
“I must warn my people about Kwong’s blood,” he gasped, faltering. “I cannot
stand your tears now.”
She looked at him so sadly. She placed a hand on his chest and lowered her head,
and whispered to him: “I am sorry for what he did. I am so sorry…”
The Healer took a deep breath, and the pain all over his body gripped him like a
dull vice.
“You are not his master,” he said. “Do not let him be yours. I must go now, before…
before…”
He slipped onto the floor, his vision blacking.
* * *
The dust caught the light as it fell in swirls around the room. Eva saw it through
Rhodri’s strong embrace, and she smiled at it, breathed in heavily, smelled his sweat,
the smell of that summer in Nuremberg.
He saw her smile, and his expression changed, angrier, deranged. He wrapped a
callous hand around her face, lifted her head off the ground, even as his other hand
stroked her gently.
“You like this?” he asked. “Is this good for you?”
“Yes…” she whispered. “Yes, it’s good.”
302
He slammed her head down on the ground, leaned in close.
“Then why did you leave me? Why did you kill me, Eva? Why?”
He slammed her again, but the pain passed through her, and she started to laugh.
His hands were becoming fainter, his face less opaque. He noticed it, too, grabbed her
head with both hands, leaning in close, furious, nose to hers.
“Eva!” he seethed, then suddenly his expression changed. Desperate, scared,
alone… he started to cry, stroked her cheeks gently, rested his head on her chest,
holding her, holding…
“Eva, please… please, I love you. Please don’t do this… please don’t…”
She lay there, unmoving, felt his hands dissolving, the breaths fainter, the weight
of him on her melting away.
“Eva, I love you… I love you…” he said, his voice a whisper.
“I know,” she said. “I loved you too.”
Just then, a patient fell over her, legs smashing her ribs, and she rolled to her side,
the sound of the room coming back full-force. The screams had been replaced by quiet
whimpers, calls of pain, strong commands from the medical staff as they ran through
the aisles, putting things back in order. Eva got to her feet, unsteady, and was caught
under the arm by Sobotka.
“You okay?” she asked, and Eva nodded.
“It’ll take a while to go away completely. Plus the fever. But I’m fine. Thanks.”
Crew strode up, tossing a blood-stained patient out of his way as he went. He
surveyed the damage.
“So I guess it worked,” he said. “We knocked the disaster down a notch.”
“I guess so,” Eva smiled. “If you happen to see the Healer or Dr Anouma again, tell
them thanks for me.”
Crew nodded agreeably, staring off into the back of the room. His gaze shifted back
to Eva, at the same time Sobotka let her go, frowning seriously.
“Them,” they said together.
* * *
303
The Healer pushed himself to his feet, staggering forward, Anouma pulling him
back, or trying to help, or… he stumbled again. Then, down the hallway two lights
trained themselves on him. He couldn’t understand the words, but knew what they
meant. He stayed perfectly still, swaying slightly.
Anouma called to them in Czech; they yelled something back, and she held out both
her hands towards them, but they dragged her away.
They grabbed him by the back of his suit and threw him, face-first into the wall.
They kicked his legs and he fell to his knees, his arms pulled up — he coughed out a
gagging cry as his shoulder was moved — and he heard the sound of a gun clicking
behind his head.
There was more talking, Anouma’s, and the armed woman, and a deeper, angry
man. Anouma was frantic in her foreign tongue; she was telling them all the deeds he’d
done, all the killing, about her brother’s plight. He blinked slowly, nearly fell.
“Forgive me,” he said softly in his native language. “May there be future
generations left to curse my name… please…”
And then the Healer felt another grip under his arm, and he was lifted from the
ground, turned towards the stairwell, and shoved so suddenly he fell onto the floor, his
body exploding with pain, it was as if he’d been shot again. He stayed there for a
moment, his suit deafening.
But now the silence was different. He heard his own mask, heard the breaths he
took, but nothing else. The sounds of the two police were distant, were fading away,
and when he opened his eyes, their lights were gone, too. He lay there in the dark, felt
his heart beating.
And when he blinked again, Anouma was leaning over him, her hand on his back,
rubbing him gently. Her eyes were wet, but the look on her face was not disgust…
concern. Concern?
“Can you walk?” she asked quietly.
He nodded, slowly.
“I told them,” she said, her voice wavering, her awful confession reluctantly coming
forth. “I told them you need to warn your people. About Adjobi’s virus.” She bit her lip,
304
tried to keep from crying, refused to look back towards her brother’s room. “I told them
why.”
She helped him to his feet, and he started towards the stairwell, slipping in his own
blood. He stumbled again, and she tried to catch him, but the weight was too much,
and he fell down, face hitting the floor… he heard her around him, calling him back,
but his vision blurred, echoed softly, and the darkness slowly soaked him away.
305
DECEMBER 1
51
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
DECEMBER 1
At the edge of the field was an old wooden fence, a set of splintered logs stacked on
top of each other, marking a passive border no one respected anymore. The snow was
untouched, smooth and perfect, a light blue colour in the shade that was the hue of a
perfect summer’s day. The kind that seemed so alien now.
The winter sky was grey, clouds slowly ebbing into the west. And in the distance,
down by the city, the smoke reached upwards, out of sight.
Eva watched the scene a while longer, the cold on her cheeks freezing the bandage
she now wore. She squinted at the brightness of the day, adjusted her backpack over
one shoulder. She reached into her pockets, pulled her mitts out and put them on, the
thick wool tingling on her fingertips like a wave of needles.
She looked back to Sobotka and Crew, their car still humming quietly behind them,
the windshield fogged.
“Thanks for the ride,” she said, smiling weakly.
Sobotka didn’t make eye contact, looked off into the distance like there was
something to see. She sniffed loudly, uncomfortable.
“Anything to get criminals out of town,” she said, then glanced over, smirked.
Behind her, Crew shivered, stomped his feet in the snow, trying to give a hint. His
breath flowed out of his mouth like smoke.
“What about Pyotr?” Eva asked.
“You want us to fetch him for you?”
Eva thought, smiled.
306
“No, no that’s all right.”
“It’s what I figured,” Sobotka snorted. “Besides, in the prison he’s at, he’s
somebody else’s girlfriend now anyway.”
Crew chortled.
Sobotka reached into her bag and pulled out a brown paper bag, taped shut along
the top. She handed it over to Eva, tentative.
“You sure you don’t need anything else?” she asked. “I think we owe you more than
this.”
Eva held the bag tightly, shrugged.
“I think we can call it even,” she said, stepping backwards a step.
Sobotka nodded, turned and lead Crew towards the car. She stopped, glanced over
her shoulder, watched Eva leaving into the snowy fields.
“Take care of yourself, Ms Kolikov!” she yelled. “You’re more useful than you look!”
Eva said nothing, just smiled.
As the sound of the car receded into the background, Eva opened the bag again,
pulling out the contents as she walked down the train tracks, off towards a distant
farm. It was all there, and she nodded happily.
A sketchbook, some pencils. A photo of her mother. A beginner’s guide on growing
your own food.
* * *
“Home to Green Four,” came the voice, a distant crackle among the static waterfall.
“Your signal is faint, Green Four.”
“My suit is damaged.”
“What is your status? Have you located LS-411?”
Static.
“LS-411 was a trap.”
“Green Four, please repeat.”
“It was a trap. My earlier samples are also tainted. Do not release treatments for
those samples.”
Static.
307
“Green Four, our engineers discovered the flaw in your earlier samples. They were
discarded.”
Wind.
“Green Four, what is your status? Can you make the journey back?”
Cold. Bitter cold.
“No,” he said. “I am done.”
And before he heard more, he dropped the phone into the snow, and continued on
his way.
308
NOTES
Writing a novel is viciously hard work. I’ve written screenplays and picture books,
but nothing has ever come close to being as difficult as writing this story, start to finish.
It all started with an article posted to Slashdot in 2002, which read (in part):
“Scientists have assembled the first synthetic virus. The US researchers built the
infectious agent from scratch using the genome sequence for polio. The most amusing
part is this snippit: 'To construct the virus, the researchers say they followed a recipe
they downloaded from the internet and used gene sequences from a mail-order
supplier.'”
http://science.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=02/07/11/2352202
The resulting discussion got my brain working overtime: imagine what would
happen if biotech tools were put in the hands of “script kiddies” — hackers with no real
understanding of what they were doing, but a strong desire to do harm. How fast would
civilization fall?
The first real incarnation of this book was as a late-night brainstorm back in the
summer of 2003. I pitched the idea to a bunch of friends during a 36-hour work
marathon: the world is ravaged by disease, and this lone “healer” travels the
countryside, finding the causes of infection, and kills them with his machete.
“A machete?” asked Chris, my long-time creative foil. “Why’d he use a machete?
Isn’t that more dangerous?”
“Yeah,” agreed Jeremy. “He should just inject them with a poison. That way he
doesn’t have to worry about getting infected blood on him.”
“He could make them think it was the cure, but it’s not!” agreed Chris.
“Shut up and get back to work!” growled Lucy (Jeremy’s wife, and ruthless
taskmaster).
Three years later, I was ready to give it a try. I constructed a story about the Healer,
intermingled with the story of a Russian kid named Pyotr who was trying to find his
mother while being hunted by the police.
Suffice to say, quite a lot has changed since that draft.
309
There are two footnotes I want to cover, in response to critiques I received along
the way. They’re elements that I couldn’t fit into the narrative without resorting to
painful exposition, but I still contemplated endlessly:
The Healer doesn’t use a gun because guns are not a limitless weapon. If you’re
sending an agent into a dangerous environment like that, you don’t want to weigh him
down unnecessarily. He already needs to carry a tent and enough food to sustain him
for weeks at a time (between airdrop deliveries). If he had to carry bullets too, he’d
never make any progress, and would be in deep trouble if he used up his stock too early
in the month. A machete is small, tough, and never runs out.
We don’t hear about America because when you’re dealing with a tragedy in your
home, you don’t often care what’s happening halfway across the world. It’s
unimportant to you at that moment in time. Is the U.S. in as bad shape as Europe, or
did they keep things under control? Have they erected a wall between Mexico?
Canada? Has democracy failed in the face of multiple concurrent plagues? All
interesting questions, but none of which impact the world of Eva or the Healer.
The shaping of this book took a lot of hard work from a lot of different people, who
I will now thank in absolutely no order whatsoever:
Slashdot. Okay, that’s not a person, but I think it’s obvious that without my “news
for nerds”, I wouldn’t be half as interesting as I am today.
Chris Gully, my partner in crime. Chris read draft four of this book and said to me:
“You’re telling, not showing. Didn’t you learn anything in high school? I’m not reading
any more of this until you fix it.”
Jeremy List, for helping me realize that a machete is a weapon best saved for
special occasions. And also Lucy List. Because if I don’t thank her, she’ll kill me.
Don RJ Davisillan, genius space nut and very good friend, who read draft 3 and
said in as polite a way as I think is possible: “Hmm. It’s very good! Thanks!” That told
me I needed to write a few more versions.
My parents, because they actually read draft 6, and whereas your parents may just
say “Oh my dearest! That was wonderful!”, my parents gave me 25 pages of highly
critical notes, which I couldn’t fully resolve until draft 9.
310
Mary Anne Mohanraj and John Scalzi for their fantastic posts about race and
writing: http://whatever.scalzi.com/2009/03/13/mary-anne-mohanraj-gets-you-upto-speed-part-ii/. Although I talked mostly about Chinese attributes in my comments
there, I was (and still am) deeply concerned about writing “other” people (racial,
cultural or even just regional) than myself. I think I treated everyone with appropriate
respect in this story, but if not, I’d love to hear your thoughts on how I could improve.
Ken Kehl and Robert Lambert, who butchered draft 5 so severely and so well that
it saved me from myself. And of course all the folks at Critters (http://critique.org)
who do a fantastic job honing raw materials into something great.
Kyle Newton, who not only found a few dozen typos that everyone else missed, but
did it while reading on a PSP. Oh, and he also helped me discover my unintentional
affection for asyndeton. He saved you all from great suffering.
Tim Pollak, my editor extraordinaire, found more glitches and oversights in this
book than I could possibly imagine. He didn’t get to read this section, though, so any
mistakes are on me!
And I want to thank my wonderful wife, Rie, who read draft 6 in a big blue binder
over the course of a week, and said to me at the end: “Well, at least it didn’t suck.”
That’s the nicest thing she’s ever said to me!
Yes!
— RJ Davis
May 2009
311
This is a Creative Commons licensed edition
downloaded from
www.obooko.com
No charge has been made to access or download this book.
You may freely use this digital copy in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the Creative Commons license attribution
appearing in this work.
1
2
© 2009 1889 Labs Ltd.
This work is licensed under the
Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 2.5 Canada License.
To view a copy of this licence, visit
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.5/ca/
or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San Francisco,
California 94105, USA.
Published by 1889 Labs Ltd.
Visit our website for free books and other fun stuff:
http://1889.ca
For Rie:
Thank you for not hating this.
3
Other Titles by 1889 Labs
Sci Fi and Horror
The Vector
Typhoon
Comedy
Archimedes’ Fish
The Dark Red Lacquer of the Heart
Poke of the Titans
The Man With the Improbable Leg
For Kids
The Pig and the Box
Panda Apples
Maggie’s Cello
Xander and the Wind
4
Table of Contents
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
5
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
NOTES
6
NOVEMBER 21 – 27
01
CHEMNITZ, GERMANY
NOVEMBER 21
Paint peeled off the swing set in the front yard, yellow flakes drifting like sunburnt
snow to dead grass. No wind for some time. The air smelled of rank summer sweat,
still and stagnant, seeping out of the parched soil. There were no birds in the barren
trees.
A nightmare had come to town.
It walked down the road with methodical pacing, long cloak swaying gently with
each footfall. The worn machete on its belt clanked against armoured gloves. No hint
of skin or hair suggested it was human: overlapping layers of cloth, metal and rubber
took care of that. The mask over its face hissed softly, taking in air to process. In every
way, inhuman.
From behind cracks in shuttered windows, anxious eyes watched it pass, breaths
held until it was safely out of sight, superstitiously certain it could smell fear in the air.
There weren’t many to see it this day. Some houses had long-open doors, others were
boarded shut with black paint splashed from afar.
A ghost town, by will or fortune.
The chain fence around number 37 was untouched, a lone tire leaning precariously
against its gate. The closest anyone dared come. From a tiny half-frosted window in
the door, Kurt saw the thing pause at the end of the walkway. He swallowed slowly,
adjusted his view to see better.
It was staring right at him.
7
It rolled the tire away, carefully leaning it against the fence post, and unlatched the
gate. Halfway up the interlocked stone path, the thing stopped, turned, stared at the
cross in the lawn. Four graves beneath its soft shadow, all roughly dug in the cold
November soil. Nothing moved for some time, and Kurt gripped the trim round his
small portal with bloodied fingernails, waiting.
Finally, the thing turned away from the graves, climbed the steps to the porch, and
without a pause, opened the front door. Kurt stumbled backwards into the foyer,
falling against the banister as the dark figure stopped before him.
“Are…” Kurt stammered, his voice weak and creaky. “Are you…”
The thing looked at him without emotion. Air hissed.
“Are you a Healer?” Kurt gasped.
It watched him a moment, then carefully bowed a ‘yes’.
Kurt collapsed down on the steps, covered his head with his frail empty arms, and
began to sob. He heard the soft crunch of thick boots grinding dirt into the Persian rug.
He hesitated, looked up, saw the mask, his reflection in the dark oval goggles. He
looked so worn.
The Healer held out a hand to him, and he took it, stood, let himself be led into the
living room. He sat in his father’s soft armchair, awkwardly, like a stranger in his own
home, being hosted by someone who’d only just arrived.
The Healer sat on the sofa to the right, and removed two cloth packages from a
pouch on his belt: one blue, one black. He placed them gently on the coffee table, and
unrolled the black one to reveal a small plastic device, and an assortment of vials.
Kurt closed his eyes, shuddering.
The Healer put a long vial into the base of the device, clicking it into place. Kurt
studied every move with his arms pulled close to his chest, like a child expecting a shot
at the doctor. When it was time to draw his blood, Kurt’s face was already streaked
with tears.
The Healer didn’t force him, but it was clear there was no escaping it.
Kurt exhaled loudly, held out a trembling arm, and the Healer’s hand gripped his
elbow firmly. A quick sting shot through him as a tiny blade hit, and he yelped, closing
his eyes tightly as his blood filled the vial.
8
His elbow jerked free, a cotton swab pushed against the wound. The Healer slid a
panel down on the device to reveal a small LCD screen.
Kurt looked out the front windows, saw the tip of the cross on the lawn, and just
stared. It was like the room was empty again, and he was alone there, sitting, watching,
waiting for a resolution. Absolution.
The creak of rubber beside him shook the daydream away.
“They… they died because of me?” he asked, not so much a question as a need for
confirmation.
The Healer didn’t shift his gaze from the device, and the callousness of it pushed
Kurt into hysteria: he grabbed the monster’s wrist, thick with metal, shook it, and got
the attention he needed.
“They died because of me!” he shouted.
The Healer placed a hand atop Kurt’s, squeezed gently, and he calmed, his
breathing ragged but slow.
“W-w-was it me?” he whispered.
A moment passed where neither moved, as if the answer had to be read from the
air rather than repeated as fact.
But then, the Healer nodded.
“No!” Kurt screamed, curling against the chair. He cried again, till he had no air in
his lungs at all, and gasped a horrible raspy breath against the floral fabric, like he was
drowning out of water.
He felt the cold tap of metal against his neck, a hiss and a sting, and his eyes shot
open at the shock of it. He pushed his face into the cushions, stopped his theatrics, and
started to mouth a prayer in his few last seconds.
A fire shot through his veins, and he flailed back, onto the floor, and convulsed so
hard he bit the edge off his tongue. He gagged on the blood.
A strong hand pushed down on his chest, keeping him from rolling, and in the
moments before his vision gave out, he saw the Healer over him, an expressionless
mask, watching.
“Not your fault,” it said to him in a rough, processed voice from the darkness.
9
On his way out of the house, the Healer closed the door quietly, respectfully. As he
made his way past the graves, he paused as harsh static struck his ears.
“Home to Green Four,” came a voice, Mandarin Chinese distorted by an overcast
sky, as if spoken through a digital waterfall. “Do you copy, Green Four?”
The Healer took the heavy satellite phone from his belt, unfolded the antenna, then
let it hang by his side again.
“Green Four to Home,” he said, fluent in his native tongue. “Sigma5 is neutralized.”
A pause. Static again.
“Understood,” said Home. “We will send you the co-ordinates of a safe location to
leave the blood sample.”
The Healer nodded to the empty air.
“Your next assignment is identified,” said Home, without a hint of emotion. “You
will be leaving at once.”
The Healer turned west, the afternoon sun nearly invisible in the haze.
“Understood,” he said again.
“Profiles and identification algorithms will be sent to you en route. We have
intelligence indicating a living host at the Motol Hospital in Prague.”
The Healer stiffened slightly as the line devolved to static. He turned around,
straight behind him, and stared into the darkening sky, back where night was already
falling. He turned a bit more, south-east.
“Home,” he said carefully, deliberately. “I am already west of Prague. Please
confirm.”
Static. The faint sounds of a discussion away from a microphone.
“Confirmed, Green Four,” came the reply. “Maps and speaking guides will be
relayed before you cross the border.”
The Healer glanced back towards the setting sun, then stared headlong toward his
objective. A weak wind tugged his cloak, and a speck of rain hit his mask, between his
eyes. His suit whined faintly, warning of moisture contact, gently quieting as the drop
slid down and away. He did not react.
“Understood,” he said once more.
Another raindrop glanced off his shoulder.
10
He was stirred back to life at the sound of the incendiary grenade exploding in the
house behind him. He retracted his steps down the interlocked path, opening the front
gate as the black smoke started to pour out of the windows, and into the sky above. He
left the tire as he’d found it.
11
02
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 26
Another raindrop hit the train’s window and dripped slowly downward. Eva watched
it, her head against the glass, as the sky darkened. She shivered in the cold, pulled her
thinning denim jacket tighter, her arms substituting for the buttons long since torn
from the front. Her tank top was too threadbare and worn for this weather, but she
had no bags, no clothes to change into.
She peered down the side of the train, as far as she could, but saw no movement.
The fields outside were abandoned, half-turned soil waiting for another pass with a
tractor.
“Forty minutes,” she muttered to herself, checking her watch. She looked back the
way they’d come, saw nothing there but hostile sky.
A knock at the door startled her. She sat straight, adjusted her jacket, tried to fix
her poorly bundled hair. The door opened a moment later, and a uniformed officer
with a surgeon's mask entered the suddenly cramped compartment. He took a quick
look around, but seemed bored by the action, like he’d done it one too many times
before.
Eva tried not to move, kept a smile on her face that felt fake no matter how she
adjusted it. The officer made no attempt to establish eye contact, only said gruffly in
Czech: “Ticket. Passport. Photo identification.”
Eva slid a small worn manila envelope from her right breast pocket, holding out
the contents with shaking hands. The officer took the papers and cards, started
running them through his handheld with casual expertise. He nodded towards her
jacket as he worked.
12
“Not the safest place to keep these things,” he said.
“I know,” she said, nodding anxiously.
“Stolen passports go for, what, €65,000 in Barcelona?”
“Eight-five—” Eva began, then stopped very abruptly, and stared at the ground.
She could hear the officer had paused his work. She tried not to shiver during the
awkward silence.
“You should get a better jacket,” he said, and the work resumed.
“I will,” Eva said, relaxing a bit, but still on guard. “It’s been a long trip.”
“I can see that,” he muttered, flipping through the pages of her passport. He turned
it sideways, flicked his eyes over at her, then snapped it shut and slipped it underneath
the handheld while he worked on her health card.
“You look young for twenty-three,” he said, though he wasn’t looking at her.
“Th-thank you.” she stammered.
“It’s not a compliment. Under the circumstances, nothing I say is going to be a
compliment. Let’s see your eyes.”
She looked up at him, nervous. He squinted at her.
“Nice shade of blue. What’s that, azure?”
“I think it’s called brandeis, actually.”
“Really. Never heard of that before. It’s funny, the odd facts and trivia you learn
from these encrypted health cards.”
There was an awkward silence.
“A border guard in Switzerland told me,” Eva said.
The officer cocked an eyebrow.
“What else did he tell you?”
“I looked old for twenty-one.”
The guard smiled at this, but it wasn’t a warm smile. He had very hard features,
and the mask didn't sit well on his face. The metal bridge for the nose was snapped in
half where he'd tried to reshape it too often, and the spaces around the sides fogged
his glasses in slow, steady bursts as he breathed.
“Ms Kolikov,” said the officer, gruffly but wearily, like he was repeating a lecture
for the thousandth time, “your passport is Russian. Your name is Russian. And unless
13
you’re going to claim you’ve been living under a rock until recently, I’m pretty sure you
know the Czech Republic closed its borders over two years ago, especially to our
cousins in Russia.”
Eva lowered her gaze, appropriately chastised. The officer continued. “Unspoken
policy says we don’t even do the small talk with people who carry Russian passports.
Last guy who did ended up dying from boils the size of a fist on his neck, because —
and I don’t mean to generalize — even though you people started it, you still don’t seem
to grasp how big a shitstorm it’s become. Don’t know when to quit. And we’re sick of
trying to make you understand. Like spitting into the wind.
“Now, I could list you about fifteen regulations covering the rights of refugees and
amnesty claimants as they relate to UN containment policies, but the bottom line is
this. I’m fully within my rights to grab you by the scruff of the neck and toss you off
this train before you even have a chance to think of a way to convince me otherwise.”
Eva held her breath. The officer scrolled his handheld briefly.
“This is the part where you convince me otherwise,” he sighed.
“Oh!” Eva stammered. “Well, I used to have dual citizenship, so while I’m not
technically Czech anymore, my mother is. She lives in Prague right now and I—”
“You've been in Paris,” he interrupted.
Eva nodded. “A few years ago. At school.”
“Computer science,” noted the officer.
“No, fine arts,” Eva corrected.
“Says here ‘computer science’.”
“I switched majors.”
He glanced at her again, eyes unflinching.
“Computer science in Paris is all I see. Let’s move on.”
“I haven’t been in Paris for years. You can check my passport… I left before —”
“Ms Kolikov,” said the officer, staring her down, “your mum’s a citizen. You cleared
the first hurdle. Congratulations. Now trust me when I say this: if you are lucky enough
to continue on this train, you will want to have saved your impassioned speeches for
the Immigration agents at the station. Words don’t change your documents, and from
here on out, all we care about are your docu…”
14
He trailed off, frowned at the screen, and looked back at her sharply. She froze,
unsure what he’d read. He pocketed her ID and his handheld, leaned out the door and
called down the hallway.
“What’s a 17-5?” he said, his voice scratchy when loud.
There was a brief pause, some clattering, then a voice mumbled something back
that Eva couldn’t make out. The officer sighed, leaned further out the door, cupped his
hand to his mask and shouted again: “What’s a 17-5?”
He glanced back at Eva, then walked out of her cabin, sliding the door half-closed,
and disappeared down the hall. She was left there with no papers, painfully alone in a
space meant for four. The wind outside was picking up, and the sky was darker still.
A sudden scream from the hallway broke her stare, and she turned round to see a
woman being shoved down the narrow passage. The officers on either side kept
pushing her forward, their faces cold behind creased masks.
The woman grabbed the bar outside Eva’s door and tried to resist, but the larger of
the two officers planted a hand on her face and pushed so hard it seemed as if her neck
might break.
The woman reached inside her jacket and pulled out a passport, a Euro ID card,
tried to hand them back. One of the officers smacked them out of her hand, onto the
ground, as if they meant nothing to him. They meant everything to her, and she gasped
in horror, lost her grip, and was pushed out of view.
Eva carefully leaned closer to the door, trying to see where they’d gone. She heard
the echo of screaming, frantic banging, and then the sound of the heavy doors to the
train slamming shut.
The woman’s passport lay on rug in the hall, cover bent and tread upon. Bulgarian.
Eva glanced out the window again, felt the cold through her jacket more intensely now.
She touched her empty pocket, bit her lip.
“A long way home,” she said to herself, then risked another peek at the passport.
Her hands clasped together, white fingertips trembling, working up the nerve to snatch
another lifeline. It would only take a second to pull it in. All it would take is a second
and she’d have a back up plan after months of—
15
A knock at the hallway window jolted her back to attention. The officer had
returned, holding her passport and rapping the glass again with scarred knuckles.
“Up!” he called.
Eva quickly obeyed, slipped out of the cabin without a word. The officer watched
her with callous eyes, squinting unhappily. He grabbed her chin and turned her
towards him, making sure he had her attention. He waved her passport, health card,
and ticket like a magician about to perform a trick, then shoved them into her pocket.
Eva flinched at the contact. Her jaw was aching from being clenched so long.
“Back of the train,” he said, shoving her slightly.
She caught her balance just in time, stared at him desperately.
“What’s at the back of the train?”
“Quarantine,” he said coldly, thumbing the safety off his pistol.
16
03
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 26
“Wait!” Eva pleaded as the officer closed in. “I’m Czech!”
He aimed the gun squarely at her head.
“I’ve got forty other so-called Czechs back there who say the same thing.”
Eva’s face lost colour.
“Forty?” she gasped. “But if one of them is sick…”
“Less paperwork for me,” he grunted.
Eva bumped into the wall. The officer half-smirked, like he was begging her to
make a move, so he’d have an excuse to shoot. There was nothing to fight back with,
nowhere to run, and no hope if she tried. She slowly raised her hands above her head.
There was a flash of movement, and suddenly a pair of arms wrapped around his
neck from behind, pulling him back and off-balance. He thrashed to the side, swung a
fierce elbow back into his assailant’s stomach, but still couldn’t get free. He was
slammed into the wall, cracking the window to the compartment, but not giving up his
gun.
He swung his elbow back again, once, twice, and the third blow connected with a
crack. The grip on his neck loosened, and he pulled forward, free, face red with fury
and stress.
Eva’s fist hit him so hard he slammed into the wall. For a moment, he had a look
of confusion, like it didn’t make sense, what had just happened. But only for a moment.
She finished him off with a blow to the face. He collapsed to the ground, glasses broken,
eyes rolling and shut.
17
Eva looked up, saw a lean, scruffy man with ruffled blond hair, wincing at the pain
in his ribs.
“Where’d you learn to do that?” he grunted.
“Here and there,” she smiled. “Thanks, I think.”
“Don’t take it personal,” he grinned, crouching quickly, scooping the gun out of the
guard’s limp hand and giving it a once-over appraisal. “He’d be getting to me next, and
I’m not even Czech. You coming?”
She glanced down at the unconscious guard, then to the back of the train.
“Not much choice anymore, is there?”
“Great! I’m Anton, by the way.”
“Eva,” she said.
Anton smiled back, then took off on a skittish, exploratory journey, down to the
heavy doors at the middle of the train. A bright yellow sign warned them not to leave
until they were sure it was safe outside; a friendly biohazard symbol served as the point
below a question mark.
“I hope you like walking!” Anton beamed, and pulled the door open, just a crack at
first. The cold air beat Eva in the face, making her squint. The rain was coming down
fiercely now, the horizon a blurry mess of heavily slanted sleet pounding into the
farmland.
Anton saw it first. He gripped Eva’s hand tighter.
The Bulgarian woman in the fur coat was backing away from the two guards who
had shoved her outside. They had their pistols aimed, but the way they were closing in
on her said they were doing more than just threatening.
The woman turned to run, covering only a few metres before two shots rang out,
and she dropped to the ground in a heap, her coat spread out in the mud like the wings
of an angel.
“Oh shit,” Eva and Anton said at once.
The guards turned back, holstering their weapons, but paused at the sight of the
open door. The gruff one reacted faster, his eyes open wide as he charged at them,
drawing his gun and taking aim.
18
“Don’t move!” he shouted, and Anton slammed the door, threw down the locking
bolt just as a loud thump hit it. He and Eva dashed back to the unconscious officer,
who was on the verge of waking up when Anton viciously kicked him across the head
and into the wall.
“What are we going to do?” Eva asked.
“I don’t know yet,” Anton said, glancing up and down the corridors. “Let me know
if you think of something. Now come on!”
He took off towards the front of the train, Eva close behind. The other passengers
watched them go, some looking ahead, some looking back, waiting for the guards to
calm the insurrection. None made a move to follow them.
Eva and Anton ducked into a small compartment at the rear of a car, closed the
door and flicked on the lights. He started rifling through cupboards like mad, dropping
food packets, sterile pillows and sealing tape all over the ground as Eva peeked outside,
trying to hear signs of trouble.
“Why are they shooting people?” Anton hissed. “Whatever happened to
deporting?”
“Border’s wide open,” Eva replied. “You get thrown off the train, what’ll you do?
Give up and go home, or finish the trip on foot?”
“I guess,” he conceded.
“The only way for them to be certain is to make sure we don’t make it anywhere on
foot. I should have known this would happen, when they didn’t do the check at the
border. We’re too close to Prague to just boot us out.”
“How far do you think it is?”
Eva shrugged.
“Close enough to try.”
Anton let out a gasp of joy and yanked a pair of heavy brown wool blankets from a
low drawer, folding them over and tucking one under his arm. He shoved the other at
Eva.
“Take this, and move fast!” he said, pushing his way out into the corridor, glancing
back briefly before racing down to the end of the car, to another outside door.
19
“I have them!” came a distant shout, and Anton angrily slammed a fist against the
wall, then turned his attention to a ladder instead.
“Let’s go! Quick!”
They climbed fast, up onto the slick steel roof. It was ridged to make it easier to
scale, but the gentle curve was still steep enough that it was dangerously easy to fall,
especially in this weather. Anton pointed back towards the tail end of the train.
“We’ll double back, get into the fields, muddy up the blankets and stay put till they
give up and leave.”
Gun in hand, he led Eva down the length of the train, rain raising a deafening roar
all around them. It was so noisy she wouldn’t know if someone were calling after them,
not until a gunshot at least… But they were past the point of warning anyway, so she
dashed forward, trying to keep her feet on course while the slick metal threatened
disaster.
She felt a quick tug at her arm, and in an instant, Anton was falling sideways off
the train, smacking his shoulder before disappearing off the edge. Eva dropped to her
knees and leaned over the side, watching him roll to a painful stop in a ditch by the
muddy field. He reached desperately for the gun, which had fallen a short distance
away.
Behind her, guards were starting to get onto the roof, their loud shouts of coordination echoing past. She gripped her blanket tightly, and without pausing, jumped
off the train, landing next to Anton. She flinched at the impact, felt like her legs might
have broken.
“Anton!” she gasped, scuttling over to him. “Anton!”
He got hold of the gun, wiped it across his shirt to clean off the mud, and lurched
to his feet.
“Blankets! Fast!”
She shoved the blankets into the mud, dragging them around. Before she could get
very far, Anton grabbed her by the arm and pulled her further into the field, past a
watery pool. She let the blankets collect all the filth they could along the way.
“We need them now!” Anton called urgently.
20
“Almost there!” she shouted back, but he wasn’t listening anymore. The guards had
caught up with them, were starting to climb down ladders, urgent but confident.
Anton checked the safety.
“Leave my blanket. I’ll catch up.”
“Anton, wait—”
But her voice was drowned out by two sharp shots as Anton clipped the closer
guard in the thigh. He fell, hard, into the tracks, and his comrade quickly slung his gun
out and fired wildly towards the escapees.
Eva had cleared nearly ten metres when she tripped into the mud with a splash.
She checked behind herself to see if anyone had noticed, but all she saw when she
looked was a quick image of Anton, cornered by the enemy, receiving a bullet to the
chest, and toppling backwards.
21
04
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 26
Eva lay still, rain blurring her vision, as the echo of the gunshot disappeared into the
bitter air. She was shivering violently, whether from the cold or from fear, and she
drew slow, ragged breaths to keep from sobbing.
The blanket was beside her, disappearing into mud that was flowing free like a
river, and she knew she, too, was sinking in, out of sight. Just how far, she couldn’t tell.
The guards were yelling back and forth to each other, terse military barks that she
couldn’t make out. Two more skirted the roof of the train, looking out into the fields
with guns drawn, hunting her. It was impossible to tell how much they could see, so
she tried to shove herself further into the muck, to disappear.
“Hey! He’s still breathing!” came a shout from near the train, and Eva dared to look
up that way. A pair of guards were standing over Anton, guns holstered. She couldn’t
see any movement, couldn’t hear any signs of life, but all the same she felt the pit of
her stomach hollow out with terror.
“We’ve gotta move him,” one said to the other.
“I’m not touching that. He’s bleeding all over the place.”
“We’ve got gloves.”
“Then you do it. Better yet, next time shoot ‘em out in the field like you’re supposed
to.”
Eva heard a slosh close by, held her breath. Another slosh, and she could faintly
hear the sound of feet trudging through the mud behind her. Slow, methodical,
searching.
22
She sunk her face lower, closed her eyes, and pushed as far down as she could, until
her nose was half-submerged, pulling in foul-smelling filth every other breath. The
footsteps stopped, but she heard the sound of sleet pounding a guard’s waterproof
jacket.
“Listen,” continued the guard close to the train. “If we leave him here, people are
going see him, and we’ll have a panic on our hands the last half hour of the trip.”
“As if Holik’s leg won’t do that anyway. Or the half-dozen gunshots they’ve all
heard by now.”
The guard behind her was moving again, but she couldn’t tell if he was coming or
going. She became aware of the feeling of rain hitting her left calf directly, and she
realized the mud was flowing off her, that she was slowly becoming uncovered as she
lay there.
She tried to shift her leg until the mud wrapped around her, but then the footsteps
stopped again. They were still close by.
“Fine,” grumbled the first guard. “One way or another, it’s got to be done. Thanks
a lot, though.”
Eva felt pressure on her right foot… The rough tread of a boot on her skin! She bit
her lip to keep from making noise, felt her ankle scream with pain.
Then: crack!
A gunshot echoed out, and everything lost meaning.
“Jesus!” gasped the first guard, and Eva swore she heard mad gurgling. The guard
behind her leapt over her, giving her ankle one last crunch as he did. She whimpered
into the mud, but it was quickly drowned out by the sound of another gunshot, then a
quick series in return.
“Jesus! Oh Christ, I’m hit! I’m hit!” wailed the first guard.
Radios were buzzing all around, footsteps sprinting through water, and Eva heard
the heavy doors to the train crash open. She peeked up, over the mud, blinking back
the rain.
“One, two, three… Up!” called an officer, and the first guard was hauled up on a
stretcher, and carried to the door.
23
She saw the other guard propped up against a comrade, his eyes blank and a
gushing wound in his neck. They closed his eyes and lifted him gently up and away.
One of the younger guards spent a good two minutes sloshing the mud around with
his foot, trying to hide the blood that had pooled there.
Even when she was finally alone, Eva stayed perfectly silent in the rain, for longer
than she could keep track of. The deluge didn’t let up, kept pounding her bare head, so
cold it was like tiny blades smashing into her skull.
She looked ahead, tried to see Anton, see if he was still alive; though that wasn’t
likely anymore. She tried sliding forward on her stomach, crawling flat on the ground,
but she knew it was too risky, and she stopped, rested her head on the side and waited.
Then, after an unbearable wait, an older, senior-looking officer came out the door,
trudged near where Anton had fallen, and lit a cigarette. He looked out into the field,
right towards Eva, blowing smoke against the wind.
A minute later, he was joined by the officer she’d beaten, his glasses gone, bruised
face, an ice pack on the side of his head. He leaned against the train, looking winded.
“All set,” the hurt one said. “The cars are sectioned and we’re ready to move.”
“How’s Karel?”
“As long as he doesn’t pick up anything, he should make it. We’ve got him in
isolation with the doc.”
“Good. We’ll get going once I finish this.”
There was a pause as Eva’s officer looked out over the field too. They stood there
in silence, and Eva shivered at the thought she might be seen.
“How about the girl?” her guard said.
“She’s 17-5, right?”
“Yeah. Hadn’t seen one of those before.”
The smoking officer stared out at the setting sun. His cigarette glowed brightly.
“She’s either dead or going to die. I’m not wasting any more lives on her.”
The other man nodded solemnly, then kept quiet for the time it took his superior
to finish smoking and toss the butt into the mud. They climbed aboard the train,
slammed the door shut, and within a few minutes the train’s engine roared back to life,
and it started to slide down the tracks.
24
Eva waited until it was a faint shimmer on the horizon before crawling to her feet.
Her ankle seared with pain, but she kept walking on it until the sensation disappeared
into her general discomfort. After a few kilometres she was barely limping at all.
* * *
The woman stood behind a fence near the train tracks, her wide hat drooping uselessly
in the rain, a lantern by her side, sending light across the field as far as the weather
allowed. She hadn’t moved the entire time Eva had seen her there, and the only motion
she made up close was to maintain lazy eye contact with the only other living creature
for miles. She was gaunt, like a skeleton with a thin layer of skin holding it together.
“Nice night for a walk,” said the old woman as Eva passed by.
Eva stopped, turned back. It was sometime after midnight, and she was blearyeyed and shivering madly.
“Excuse me?” she trembled.
“No rain lately. This is good for the crops.”
Eva smiled weakly, nodded, started back on her way.
“You’re going to the city?” asked the woman, interrupting again. “I came from the
city. Had a flat there, a nice big television. Watched imported films every Friday night.
You ever seen Midnight Cowboy?”
Eva shook her head.
“Me neither. It was top of the queue when my husband died. Moscow 9.”
Eva just watched. The old woman was talking more to herself now, fiddling her
thumbs, staring at the ground as a waterfall poured off the brim of her hat.
“I couldn’t go back. They sealed my flat, and I had nowhere else to go. My sister
wouldn’t see me, my parents wouldn’t answer the phone. They may have been dead
already. I’m not sure. It’s always hard to tell.”
Another minute passed with just the sound of the rain, and when Eva decided it
was time to move on, the woman looked up at her directly.
“Are you good at farming?”
“Sorry?”
“Do you know anything about growing food? Keeping animals?”
25
“No. No, sorry, I don’t.”
The woman nodded, looked back to the ground.
“I live in the barn, way back there. The farmhouse is sealed. Tape all over. No idea
why. I won’t go in. But the barn is nice. I… I thought it was a waste of land, you know?
All this land, and no one alive to use it? Such a shame. I just… I’m not very good at
growing things. I need some help.”
Eva looked back, saw nothing in the darkness. No farmhouse, no barn, no crops.
“I’m going to stay with my mother. She’s got a place in the city,” Eva said, and the
woman nodded as if she’d expected it.
“That’s good. That’s very good,” she muttered, turning around in a circle, then
settling back where she’d been. “Well then, I won’t keep you. Good luck in there. Good
luck indeed.”
Eva nodded again, then started back towards the city. When the woman’s lamp was
no longer helping light her way, she heard a coarse cry:
“Oh! And if you find any books on farming, bring them out for me! I’ll make us
tea!”
Eva didn’t turn to reply. She just kept walking into the cold.
26
05
SKIPTON HOUSE, LONDON, ENGLAND
NOVEMBER 27
William Carey stubbed his toe on a concrete barrier, and his coffee promptly dumped
itself all over the sidewalk. It took him a moment or two to fully process what he’d
done, by which point the hot liquid was well on its way to searing his hand, which made
him throw it away in a hurry, cursing quietly under his breath.
“’Morning, Mr Carey,” said a patrolman, tight rubber mask hiding a warm smile.
“Trouble with your beverage, sir?”
Carey smiled pathetically, shrugged.
“I seem to lose them daily, don’t I, Claude?”
“That you do, sir.”
Carey wiped his trousers off with his free hand, his leather briefcase barely
counterbalancing the effort. He stood up, sighed loudly, and pushed his wire-rimmed
glasses up his nose. Luckily, there was no one else in the area to see his disaster.
Somewhere off in the distance, a lone motorbike zipped down another empty
street, piercing the morning quiet and sending a storm of pigeons off the rooftops all
around Skipton House.
“One day I’ll make it to my desk without tripping over things.”
Claude shrugged, then caught sight of a young woman in a grey skirt and a yellow
wrap-around mask on her way to work. She ably flashed him an ID badge as she
passed, and took no notice of Carey at all. The two men watched her card-swipe her
way through the front doors and disappear inside.
Carey’s coffee-soaked clothes were starting to give him a chill. He wiped at them
some more.
27
“It’s a waste of a good drink, is what it is,” he grumbled.
“You’d have to dump it out at the first checkpoint anyway, sir,” Claude said,
checking down the street this way and that, like he was waiting to get on with more
important business.
“No. Really?”
“Yes sir. No outside substances past checkpoint A.”
“Oh dear. I… I guess I never got far enough to find out about that rule.”
“Yes sir.”
Carey began staring at the ground, embarrassed, started shifting the briefcase to
his other hand and back. He refused to meet Claude’s eyes, though Claude wasn’t
paying attention anyway.
“Well, have a good day, then!” Carey said with a deflated kind of cheer.
“And you, sir.”
Carey hopped onto the street, crossed over to the other side, and caught sight of
himself in the polished brass of the ‘Containment Office’ sign: he looked like a fool,
and he wanted desperately to go home.
* * *
The coffee machine at Skipton House was deep inside the building, in a hallway where
the lights barely functioned and stacks of boxes overflowed dot-matrix pages all over
the floor. A patchwork system of notices on the wall instructed employees how not to
brew coffee, complete with a warning that two scoops of the Colombian Dark from the
mini-fridge on the left might very well constitute a biohazard.
Carey kept his briefcase perched between two fingers on each hand, waiting
patiently while the ‘quick brew’ light died a meandering death.
The fluorescent bars above him, which had been no brighter than a candle to start,
gave out midway through the process, leaving Carey in utter darkness for a few minutes
while he tried to tap it back to life with the heel of his shoe. A woman with a black skirt
and a white cotton mask stared uncertainly as the light came back on, him standing
there on his toes, his worn leather loafer in his fingertips, madly swatting at the ceiling.
After a moment of awkward silence, he stepped aside so she could pass.
28
His coffee still wasn’t done.
Down the hall, in the great sea of cubicles that made up the first floor of the Client
Service Department, he heard the chatter of a few dozen workers speaking in calm,
soothing tones to the panicked masses.
“No sir,” said one woman, her northern accent cutting through the rest. “we have
not absorbed the Immigration Office. You still need to clear things with them before
filing papers with us. No, no sir, I won’t be able to transfer your file. They gather rather
different information there. Did you… oh you have? And they still told you to… Right,
let me save you some time, then. You’re going to have to fill out a BCO-193 form and
mail it in to our Liverpool branch, and they’ll… yes, that’s right, four months. I wish I
could, sir, but as you can imagine, there’s a substantial backlog of late…”
The coffee machine beeped gently, bringing Carey back to the task at hand. He
picked up his cup and turned round, carefully navigating the crowded hallways to his
office in the Corporate Accountability (Foreign Affairs) section. Off to his left spread a
large room filled haphazardly with desks, stacked thick with wires, papers and
dossiers.
Each of the thirty-odd employees there looked up to him as he came through,
nodding respectfully and muttering their ‘Good morning, Inspector’s in a way that was
not entirely convincing.
Carey tried waving to them, but the motion spilt coffee on his hand. His eyes
twitched at the heat, and he smiled weakly and darted into his office.
He set the cup down on his desk, sloshing even more around, sucking the drops of
coffee off his hand, then clasped it tightly and tried to contain himself.
His flailing was interrupted by a sharp knock at the door that sent him scrambling
for tissues, scrap paper, anything to soak up the mess. He got things reasonably tidy,
leaned back in his chair, faking an expression that only half-resembled authority.
“Come in,” he called, picking up a pen and searching his desk for a paper to be
writing on, though all such papers were now in the trash.
“Excuse me, sir,” said a woman, leaning in the cracked-open door. “I wish this
could wait. We seem to have a very serious problem on our hands, and we need your
help.”
29
“What kind of problem?” Carey squeaked, motioning her to come in.
She slipped into the room, and Carey immediately remembered her name: Janice.
She was possibly the most gorgeous subordinate in the entire government. Carey knew
her name thanks to the ID tag she wore on her too-tight sweaters, which oddly
reminded him of the actress in the sexual harassment video he’d been shown as part
of orientation.
“It’s something we caught last night,” she said, sitting cautiously across from him.
“It might be nothing, but—”
“But then you wouldn’t be in here with that look on your face,” Carey interrupted,
and Janice’s expression went as blank as she could manage.
“Quite right,” she conceded. “It’s urgent.”
“Where’s that David fellow? He’s your manager, isn’t he? Shouldn’t he be here too?
I mean, not that I mind. I’m sure you’re capable.”
Janice’s eyebrow twitched.
“I’m sorry, sir, didn’t you hear? David had a cough last night. He’s under house
arrest till spring.”
“Spring?” Carey gasped. “For a cough? What do we do here in flu season?”
“Honestly, sir, we lose half the workforce through the winter. I only clocked six
months of time last year. The Department takes it very seriously.”
Carey nodded uncertainly.
“Well then,” he said. “Lacking David, I guess you’ll have to walk me through this.”
“My pleasure, sir,” she said, handing him a block of pages from deep inside the
stack of folders. He scanned it quickly to try and gather context, but got nowhere. It
was filled with columns of numbers and codes, none of which made sense to him. All
he recognized was the subject line at the top.
“Zemus Pharmaceuticals,” he said. “Are we… I wasn’t aware Zemus used foreign
workers.”
“Oh, they don’t, sir,” Janice said. “This was sent to us by Revenue, actually. A bit
outside our usual scope. They had some questions and thought we should take a look.”
30
“Oh, I see,” Carey said, nodding broadly. “Co-operation among the branches of
government. Good to see.” He flipped to the second page, then the third, frowned. “I’m
still not following, I think,” he said.
Janice’s face lit up, and she quickly dashed round the desk, her perfume strong.
She pointed to the first of the highlighted entries on the second page, following the line
across with her pen, resting on the code ‘EAB’, in the ‘Testing/Approval’ column.
“These are the additions to the next Zemus booster shot, due for manufacture in
December,” she said. “You see there are nearly twenty cases of Executive Approval
Bypass already. Revenue was wondering if that’s normal.”
“And… um… is it?” Carey smiled nervously.
Janice pointed to one of the other entries, its ‘Testing/Approval’ column full of
letter codes.
“The average patch in a booster release is based on a live virus,” she said. “Zemus
researchers crack a strain and put it into the testing process, working their way along
until the vaccine is proven to be safe for general consumption.”
“Ah,” sighed Carey. “so they’re bypassing all the testing. Um. Executively.”
“They have a process built specifically to let them bypass testing,” Janice said, her
eyes twinkling as she avoided looking at him. “It’s supposed to be used when they make
a deal with another certified British company, so they can pass their treatments back
and forth without reinvesting in the testing that’s supposedly taken place. It saves time
and money, and keeps all boosters as up-to-date as possible.”
Carey nodded.
“I’m following,” he said. “But… er… why is this a problem, exactly?”
Janice pointed to one of the highlighted entries, tapped it gravely.
“None of these strains have been identified within Britain,” she said. “They’re all
continental.”
“Right!” he said. “Continental is certainly no good. So should we… should I assign
someone to start the paperwork on… I mean… discipline or somesuch? Is that what
we’d do here?”
31
Janice shook her head, and it was increasingly obvious to both who was better
suited for the chair Carey now occupied. She closed the folder, crouched next to his
chair, spoke in a near-whisper.
“This needs careful handling, sir,” she said. “I’d like permission to bring it to the
Director, if you don’t mind.”
“The Director?” Carey gasped. “Janice, listen, I’ve been here almost a month and
I’ve only met the man once. I don’t think we should be… you know… bothering him
about some import violations.”
“Sir, Zemus hasn’t been importing anything,” she whispered urgently. “There
would be stacks of paperwork as tall as this room for each one of these entries. There
would be hundreds of man hours dedicated to confirming them. And more
importantly, there would be some evidence that there are actually Continental
companies behind each of these cures in the first place. We’ve looked, and there aren’t
any. Half of the strains here aren’t even registered with EU Health.”
“Maybe they’re from the Chinese…?” Carey offered meekly.
“The Chinese use a whole other system. They go through the government first,
trickle down to the corporations at the end of testing. And anyway, Zemus puts so
much effort into dodging Chinese vaccines, it’s highly unlikely they’d suddenly start
adopting them under the table like this.
“No sir, these bypasses are being implemented blindly. There’s a concerted effort
here to add new elements to the Zemus boosters in such a way as to dodge the usual
inspections… and we have no idea what’s actually in them. It’s not a matter of
regulations. This is true public safety on the line.”
“Oh,” said Carey meekly. “All right then, we’ll go see the Director straight away.
And you’ll do the talking.”
Janice smiled, stood up and almost immediately changed her composure: she
stood taller, held her face more sharply, reeked of middle management.
“Just… what are you planning to say?” Carey asked, and she stared down at him
with intense focus, her jaw set.
“I’m going to explain that someone could very well be using Zemus’ booster shot
project to distribute viruses globally. And unchecked.”
32
06
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 27
It was midday before Eva saw the peak of the church on Nepomucká, and it took
another hour before it looked anything like the photo she’d carried in her wallet all
these years.
Even when she got the angle right, the differences were striking. The sky today was
a light grey rather than bright and blue, and Eva looked nothing like her younger self,
wearing a University of Paris t-shirt, plump, with a hearty smile. The photo was
creased and faded, looked worse for wear; but not as bad as Eva.
She rounded the corner to Píseckého, past a row of houses she only halfremembered, and paced quickly down to #1 with the kind of stiff-moving
determination that only comes from a fear of the elements.
Sometime around dawn the weather had changed from a kind of rainy-cold to a
winter-cold, giving Eva’s exposed skin a sharp, prickling sensation that she knew
would feel like a blazing fire the second she got warm. If she got warm. The last of the
mud had washed off her some time ago, but it took with it whatever insulation she
might have had.
She leapt up the building stairs and pushed on the front door. It swung open
eagerly, and Eva felt a tiny pocket of warm air blow past her, out into the rain. Beyond
the threshold, she found it was colder inside than outside, so she dashed up the stairs
to the third floor, down the hall to #303, and knocked with a reddened hand.
No answer. She tried again, as a shiver shot up her spine, eating away any lingering
patience. She made a fist and pounded on the door, her teeth rattling audibly.
33
“She isn’t home, dear,” said an old woman from next door. She was peeking out of
her apartment, shawl pulled around her short, thick frame. She wore glasses nearly a
third the size of her face, yet her eyes were squinted like she couldn’t see.
Eva tried to control her breathing so she could speak clearly, but had little luck.
“How long has she been gone?” she called out feebly.
The woman cocked her head a bit, came out into the hall with a cracked fibreglass
cane and wobbled towards Eva.
“I wouldn’t know, dear. I don’t like to snoop. But I remember that young fellow
from this morning was knocking at the door like such a madman, I nearly called the
police!” The woman paused a short distance away, inspecting Eva carefully. “You look
cold.”
Eva closed her eyes, thought of warm places.
“I… I had to walk from… from the train station,” she said. “it’s raining.”
“Poor thing,” said the woman. “Here… take my shawl. You don’t want to catch a
cold in a place like this.”
Eva put out a hand, smiled weakly.
“No… no thank you,” she said. “Too wet right now. I… I just have to get inside and
warm up.”
“Inside? Do you know Mrs Kolikov? I didn’t know she…” The woman gasped. “Oh
my… you’re not Eva, are you?”
Eva winced at the woman, nodded.
“Oh my dear… I had no idea… in the photos you always look so radiant and…” she
trailed off, realizing what she was saying. Eva laughed.
“Been a hard few years,” she said.
“For us all,” the woman sighed. She reached out her hand, as if waking back into
polite society. “I’m Bachida Novacek. I live next door. It’s so wonderful to finally meet
you.”
Eva took the woman’s hand with icy fingers, shook gently.
“Hi,” she said, then pulled her arm back in a vain attempt to stay warm. Mrs
Novacek rubbed Eva’s shoulder, the air of a kind grandmother about her.
34
“You must have been out there a long time to be this wet. Why don’t you come to
my place and warm up?”
Eva shook her head. “No, really, it’s okay. I just really want to get inside. Did my
mother leave a key around here, under the mat or s-s-s-something…?”
Eva collapsed against the door as a shiver swarmed over her, and she pressed her
head down and shut her eyes tight, trying to ride it out. But before long the weight of
the past few days slammed into her, and she started sobbing uncontrollably, one hand
covering her eyes, the other desperately trying to twist the doorknob.
A warm hand rubbed her back, up and down, and she felt a comforting nudge
under her arm.
“Come along, dear,” the old woman said. “let’s get you fixed up.”
Eva stumbled, head sunk low, into the humid, homey embrace of Mrs Novacek’s
living room. She was guided down onto a too-soft sofa, between a pair of ochre-andmustard knitted pillows, a warm blanket wrapped over her shoulders. It took her a full
minute to control her crying.
“I’m all wet,” she said, keeping her eyes to the ground.
“Things dry,” Mrs Novacek said, digging under a pile of blankets, hunting for the
second of a pair of thick furry slippers. “When did you eat last?”
“I can’t eat now. Too cold.”
“Tea, then,” and she shuffled off into the kitchen, cane creaking with each step.
The living room was packed, but tidy. There were countless photo frames lining
every available surface, showing a full range from glossy colour to dusty black-andwhite. There were a handful of frames lined with wilted flowers, set aside from the rest,
a single scented candle burning before them.
Above the fireplace was a large painting, done in oils, from Place de l’Alma in Paris,
looking over the Seine. The sky was a rusty colour, not the merciless, bright orange
that came in more recent days. Eva knew the image intimately.
“You have one of my paintings?” she called out.
“Your mother gave it to me. She’s very proud of you, dear. It’s not every child who’s
so gifted in the arts! My late sister had two of your paintings in her dining room, she
loved them so much. When they unseal the house, I’ll see if I can’t spirit them away.”
35
“How bad is it here?” Eva asked. “News is hard to come by on the outside.”
“The Old Town Square closed last month. The vandals had run wild for too long. It
was necessary, but it… it took the spark out of us. The radio said the old clock’s keeper
has fallen ill. His son, too. Only the daughter seems safe, and who knows for how long?
Sometimes you wonder… when is it too much? When do we stop being who we are?”
“I hope it takes more than that,” Eva said.
“But it can’t be as bad as where you’ve been,” the old woman replied. “Paris must
have been terrible. I know your mother has been worried sick about you.”
“I know,” Eva said, lowering her head, “I know. I made a mess of things.”
“Why did you stay out for so long, dear? Excuse me for saying, but why didn’t you
come back home, come back and take care of your mama?”
Eva shook her head, bottom lip trembling.
“You know that feeling you get, riding a bike down a steep hill? You know it could
go so wrong for you… it should go wrong… but you still hope you’ll be okay? You’ll
survive unscathed?”
Eva ran her fingers through her hair, gripped her head, tried to control the
shivering. All the shivering.
“I guess I thought I could survive the trip,” she said.
“You did survive, dear,” said Mrs Novacek as she paced back into the room, a pair
of tea cups rattling on their saucers. She handed one to Eva, who took it with trembling
hands. The warmth made her fingers prickle, but it was a good pain to be feeling, after
all that cold.
“Drink slowly,” Mrs Novacek said, lowering herself into a chair across from Eva.
“You’ve got a lot of cold to undo, and it will take a while.”
“Thanks,” Eva said, sipping the camomile quietly. Her host blew into her own cup
and looked out the window.
“It’s colder this year than it has been since I was a girl,” she said, grim. “They say
it never snows in Prague until February, but I think this year is different. There was no
autumn at all. A parched summer to a bitter winter.”
“It’s like that everywhere,” said Eva. “They say it’s the lack of cars on the roads,
messing up the ozone layer. Or… or the other way around, maybe.”
36
“They say a lot of things,” harumphed the woman.
Eva looked out the sliding glass door, into the pale water-colour sky over the city.
A few browned leaves, untouched by the rain, blew across the balcony to the left, and
under the divider to—
“That’s it!” she gasped, and quickly put her tea down on the coffee table. Keeping
the blankets wrapped tight around her, she scurried to the balcony, and leaned over
the edge, peering down the row. A smile grew on her face, and she looked back at the
confused Mrs Novacek.
“My mother never locks the balcony door!” she exclaimed, just before the cold air
brought her shiver back full-force. “If I can swing around this partition, I can get in
through the back!”
Mrs Novacek observed the situation through her thick glasses.
“I think you ought to wait for her to get home,” she said, but Eva had already
handed her back her blanket, and was climbing up on the balcony ledge, holding the
partition tightly with reddened fingers.
She glanced down below herself as she straddled the two sides, as the wind bit her
re-exposed skin. There were gardening tools down there: a rake, push lawn mower and
an assortment of pruning shears, half-buried by a scattershot pile of leaves. Three
storeys down. Eva’s sneakers slid slightly on the ledge.
She moved herself enough to be able to swing around the rest of the way in a quick
motion, and she landed on her mother’s balcony and toppled to the ground.
“Eva! Eva, dear, are you all right?” cried Mrs Novacek from the other side.
Eva got up awkwardly, brushed the grime and dirt off her knees, and gave the
sliding glass door a little nudge. It slid open easily.
“I’m great, Mrs Novacek. No trouble at all. I just…”
Her voice trailed off into nothing as she looked into the apartment, and saw the
blood splatter on the kitchen wall.
37
07
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 27
“Hold on a second,” Eva called to Mrs Novacek, and walked into the apartment with
careful, silent feet.
It was cold inside, and dry, like the inverse of Mrs Novacek’s place. The walls were
stark and bare; the glass-topped coffee table had a solid layer of dust to it. At the
division between the living room and the kitchen, Eva noticed the glistening remnants
of a pair of wine glasses, the white carpet stained burgundy, next to a dried pool on the
tile floor.
A knife lay on its side on a cutting board, a rotting carrot half-chopped, alone on
the counter. Eva rounded it without breathing, her eyes locked on the blood sprayed
on the far wall, dripping down along the baseboards into an area she couldn’t — and
didn’t want to — see.
After a last, hesitant step, she saw a thick pool of blood, glassy almost, rubbed
about on the clean tile floor. But no body. Nothing at all, as if someone had bled all
that, standing up, and left only a fading set of footprints to the front door and beyond.
Eva touched the toe of her shoe to the pool of blood. It stuck slightly, but not much.
She rubbed it off on the ground next to her, looked around anxiously.
“Mama?” she called out into the flat. A sharp echo repeated it.
She carefully padded down the hallway to her mother’s bedroom on the right,
peered in cautiously. She held her breath and listened for a sound for any sign of life.
She reached in, flipped on the lights, and saw nothing but more of the same sterile
blankness as the rest of the place. The bed was made up the way it always was.
38
Further down in the bathroom, Eva instinctively switched on the heat as she
entered the room. The thermostat clicked quietly as the baseboard heaters woke from
a yearlong slumber, sending the smell of hot metal into the air.
Aside from the medicine cabinet being half-open, there was nothing of note. The
expired prescription bottles were still neatly arranged, labels out. The shower mat
drooped neatly from the edge of the bathtub.
The last room at the end of the hall had been Eva’s, briefly. But when she opened
it, she found none of her old things. Instead, there was a heavy oak desk, covered with
piles upon piles of papers, folders and random stationery. A laptop screen peered
through the mess, its base buried beneath a sea of physical things. A pair of hulking
bookshelves overflowed with medical journals, binders of reports and university
textbooks Eva had never seen.
The floor, too, was littered with crumpled papers, notes and sketches. Molecules,
DNA strands without notation, coded scribblings in her mother’s handwriting. A red
pen cracked under her foot as she made her way across the room, to the small endtable that held a thick cardboard box. There was a smear of blood on the side, the
bottom corner badly bashed in, crumpled.
Inside, she found a dozen smaller boxes, about the size of a can of soda, with blueand-white labels in Finnish, French and Russian. Eva turned one and read the
Russian:
GENESIS INCUBATOR
REFILL CAPSULE
220MG (55MG X 4)
She put the package down and stepped back, looking around. She dashed back to
the kitchen, grabbed the phone off the wall, and turned it on.
Her finger hovering over the keypad, Eva listened to the dial tone. She looked at
the drying blood on the ground, saw her passport peeking out of her jacket pocket,
stained with mud. The empty room sucked the warmth out of her.
39
She turned off the phone and left it on the counter.
Just then, a knock at the door sent Eva back into the wall. She stayed there, quiet,
listening. After a short pause, there was another knock, quick and agitated, and Eva
carefully slid towards the door, her thumping heart making it hard to concentrate on
whatever sounds she could discern from out in the hall.
She found her voice, squeaky with fear.
“Hello?” she called to the locked-and-chained door.
“Eva?” asked Mrs Novacek anxiously, and Eva exhaled so deeply she nearly fainted.
She undid the chain, threw the lock and opened the door enough to peek out.
“Hi, Mrs Novacek,” she said, trying to sound as calm and nonchalant as she could.
“Oh, you made it! I was worried! You sounded as if something was wrong!”
Eva bit her lip.
“Oh, I… I just thought the oven was left on. Optical illusion. My eyeballs are
probably frozen.”
She faked a smile, but the half-blind old woman didn’t notice. She just rubbed Eva’s
arm kindly, patted her gently.
“You look frozen, too. Go take a warm bath, dear, and stay here until your mama
gets home. She’ll be so happy to see you.”
As Eva shut the door, she looked around the desolate room, cold and empty and
alien, and shivered again.
“Until she gets home,” she repeated.
* * *
Lean arms wrapped round Eva, warmer than the bath water, and she turned her head
back and kissed a rough, unshaven chin, eyes closed. Past the scented oils, she smelled
him. Familiar. She felt breath on her neck, so at peace, and slowly drifted lower in the
water, but he held her tight, and she smiled.
“Rhodri,” she moaned.
Then she choked on cold water.
40
She sat up suddenly, her arms locking tightly on the edges for support. She was
alone in the room, in the bath especially. The water was frigid. She sat there a moment,
not moving, till things stopped rippling around her.
She glanced to the side, out into the empty hallway.
“Stay out of my head,” she said to no one present.
* * *
She awoke some time in the night feeling winded, like she’d been running for hours,
but unable to sleep any more. It took all her willpower to down a foil-wrapped package
of ‘Safe Food’ she’d found stashed in the closet. The wrapper boasted ‘Czech
Government Certified’, which made Eva smile.
She spent half an hour on her mother’s sofa, wrapped in two fleece blankets,
staring away from the TV at the empty fireplace. There was wood to the side, a lighter
too, but she just watched the dark hole instead. The baseboard heaters went click click
click click as they came back to life, trying to keep the November air at bay.
She was peripherally aware of the programme guide appearing on the screen,
informing her of all the great classics that would be coming up on Prague’s #1 station.
The easy-listening music made her eyelids heavy, and she swayed a bit, but stayed
awake.
The news came on, and she found herself watching, though her head didn’t turn.
“We are following a developing story at this hour,” said the newscaster, a pristine
blonde whose cheeks still had the marks from the edge of a filter mask. “A six-year-old
boy thought to be lost in the east-end housing projects last week has been found, and
re-united with his grandparents following an exhaustive search by local police. The
boy, who cannot be named due to patient confidentiality laws, was last seen by
neighbours nearly eight days ago. According to sources, he has survived on breakfast
cereal in the attic of a neighbouring building since disappearing.”
Eva reluctantly turned her head to the screen as the boy’s grandfather carried a
blanket-wrapped child past the news camera.
“It’s a miracle we have him back,” said the old man, tears in his eyes. “It must have
been so hard for him, alone, out in this weather, especially after his mother—”
41
“That’s all for questions,” interrupted a police spokesman, hand across the lens,
pushing the cameraman away. “Give them some privacy. Go on.”
Eva turned off the TV, threw the remote across the room. She took a long, slow
breath. The air was still cold.
She rummaged through her mother’s drawers until she came out with another
layer of sweaters, long underwear and socks, and found the biggest, heaviest boots she
could to throw on her icy feet. She stomped around the living room a bit to get her
blood flowing again, and turned all the thermostats up as high as they’d go.
A knock at the door gave her a start, but also something to do. She sprinted over,
undid the chain and the lock.
“Thank god you’re here, Mrs Novacek, I was…”
But it wasn’t Mrs Novacek at the door. A heavy gloved hand grabbed the front of
her shirt and yanked her off balance.
“There you are, Ms Kolikov,” said a woman in a heavy winter coat, holding a police
badge over her thickset partner’s shoulder. “We were wondering when you’d show up.”
42
NOVEMBER 28
08
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Dr Fanta Anouma adjusted the stethoscope on a frail, pocked arm, and checked
her watch with a frown. A drip of sweat trickled down her ebony skin, and she brushed
it with her free arm, careful not to touch her sterile gloves. The sound of the heaters all
around the room was hard to overcome; she strained to hear, wrinkling her brow with
concentration.
“Know what you’re doing?” asked Mr Vecera, his voice raspy and coarse.
“Shh,” Anouma scolded. “or I’ll have to start over.”
Mr Vecera smiled at her, his patchy white beard a sharp accent to the gaps in his
teeth, brown and black. His hospital gown hung on him loosely, dried blood down the
front. An IV hung behind him, dripping saline slowly.
Anouma flung the stethoscope round her neck, jotted on his chart with a too-short
pencil. She scratched underneath her surgeon’s mask with the bunched-up wrist of her
glove, sighing.
“Bad news?” Mr Vecera asked, half-serious.
“No worse than before,” Anouma replied. “continuing this way, you will live
forever.”
Mr Vecera laughed loudly, and two of the patients nearest him grunted and tried
to roll themselves so they’d be facing away from him. He patted Anouma’s hand kindly.
“You lie badly,” he said. “but thank you.”
Anouma didn’t answer, kept her expression the same. She looked down at his
chart, and he squeezed her hand to get her attention back.
43
“Miss home?” he asked sincerely.
Anouma shrugged.
“I am liking it here,” she said.
“Your language is better. Give it another month and we won’t even know you’re not
Czech.”
Anouma laughed this time, patted his arm and put his chart back at the end of his
bed.
“What’s it like where you come from?” he asked her.
“The place I lived in Côte d'Ivoire, they call it the hot country,” she said, her eyes
alive, remembering. “We in the north are teased for poor constitution, how we cannot
survive in but a peaceful, sunny clime. But you know, after all these years up here, in
your city, Mr Vecera… well, my friends in the south, near the ocean, they have no idea
what cold really is. Having a nice breeze off the water is nothing like a day such as
today.”
“Ah! So you like it here, then?”
She smiled, her mask tipping to the side.
“How could I not like a place that gives me patients like you.”
He beamed happily, waved her off with a shaky hand.
“I’m glad you’ve stayed with us, doctor,” he said. “You’re tougher than those
southerners could ever hope to be.”
“Thank you,” she said with a nod. “I will be back to check you again. Soon.” She
pulled the curtain round his bed back, letting in the full sound and sight of four
hundred sick and dying patients.
They were grouped and partitioned by type and severity of disease, and though
there were signs up to help pinpoint whichever strain you were after, anyone with a
passing familiarity of modern plagues could get their bearings at a glance by the
particular skin tones or the stains on the bed sheets. From the middle of the floor, the
sounds of different species of moans swept past Anouma as she stood alone, the tallest
thing in the rows of beds.
She felt a calm breeze blow her hair across her forehead, and for a moment she
swayed, smiling at the sensation, calming, quiet. But then her eyes opened and she
44
stared up at the ceiling, at the large fans up there, swirling slowly, picking up speed,
and her breath left her.
She turned quickly to the far end of the room, down by the generators, and saw a
nurse playing with a long row of switches, trying to see which one powered the old Xray machine. Anouma started to call out, but clipped herself off, clenched her fists and
made a quickly dash to the nurse.
She slammed all the switches down, with a furious hand, grabbed the nurse by the
collar.
“What do you think you are doing?” she hissed.
“I can’t figure which one turns on the—”
“Take a look at the ceilings!” Anouma whispered. “You’ve been running the fans!
How long have you been at the switches?”
“I… I don’t know,” fumbled the nurse. “A minute? Maybe more?”
Anouma shook her head, squeezed back a head ache.
“Air flow must be restricted in this room,” she said. “Our partitioning is not good
enough to stop cross-contamination.”
“I know, I—”
“You must be more careful,” Anouma said, her tone softening. “If Dr Bastien
noticed this, you would be—”
“Help!” came the call from the old foyer, across the sea of white linen. Anouma
glanced back, then abandoned her warning and started running, stethoscope slung
into her ears in mid-stride. Across the hall, Dr Bastien was running too, tearing his
gloves off urgently.
A man in a work suit was leaning against the wall, a small child in his arms,
wrapped in a blanket and drenched with rain. The man was panting, wheezy breaths,
and looked like he’d been crying. The girl coughed loudly, and he nearly dropped her
onto the ground.
“Help her… I don’t know what’s wrong…” he gasped, then collapsed down in a
heap, barely keeping her frail body from slamming into the floor. Anouma slipped on
a new pair of gloves, crouched down and pulled the blanket away from the girl’s face.
45
It stuck, glued with dried pus to the face, and the girl cried out, then coughed again…
a terrible, hacking cough.
“Kiev-5,” Bastien muttered grimly from behind, blasting his stethoscope with
disinfectant and pushing it against the girl’s pocked chest. “How long has she been
sick?” he asked the man.
“I… I think three days,” he muttered, his eyes rolling back in his head.
“Catch him,” Bastien said, snatching the girl as Anouma gently lowered the father’s
head to the ground. She pried open his jacket and shirt, saw the smallest of blisters on
his chest.
“Cover his face with a mask and help me get the girl outside,” Bastien said, pushing
his white hair from his eyes.
“Outside?”
“We need open air,” he said sternly.
“She needs a bed!” Anouma whispered urgently. Bastien stared at her seriously,
spoke in hushed French, darting quick glances back to the sick room.
“Kiev-5 is airborne at this stage. Half the people in this room would die tonight if
they caught it. Even with the fans off, we cannot take that chance.”
“She will die out there,” Anouma replied, unfazed.
“She’ll die in here too. Don’t let her take the rest with her.”
A loud cry came from inside the room, weak but hysterical.
“I can’t die!” a woman cried in French. “I can’t die here!”
“Shit,” Bastien muttered, then called out to her: “If you say one word of Czech
about this to anyone, I’ll make this girl your bed mate, do you understand me?”
There was a long silence.
“Y-y-yes,” came the reply.
Bastien nodded to Anouma.
“Grab the ultrasound and meet me on the steps.”
Anouma quickly draped a blanket over the girl’s father, a mask securely over his
face, and ran back into the treatment room, to the cupboards near the crash station,
and pulled a small, stained ultrasound out. She pushed the battery check as she ran,
slowed when she saw it had half power. She stopped by the drawers at the door,
46
rummaged around for some gel and a spare battery. All she found was a half-used
bottle and an empty battery package.
Bastien had the girl on her back on the steps to the hospital, checking her airway.
He motioned for the ultrasound, and Anouma handed it over, squirted gel on the girl’s
stomach, the greenish colour mixing with thick yellow. Bastien pushed the sensor
down, and she lurched up, gasping.
“Hold her,” he commanded, squinting at the screen.
Anouma angled down on the girl’s shoulders, watching the poor swollen eyes
twitching in a pained sleep. She looked away, to the monitor, squinted at it, then
glanced at where Bastien was pointing.
“Her liver…” she said tentatively.
“Kidneys too,” he muttered. “Her lungs are going now.”
“Should we…?”
“No,” he said, snapping the machine off, wiping it clean. “once the liver’s gone, so
is the patient. Her father got her here too late.”
Anouma blinked, looked down at the beautiful blonde hair round the distorted
face, brushed it with a gloved hand. When she looked back up, Bastien was preparing
a shot.
“What is…”
“For the pain,” he said, pushing it through her veins. “whatever good it might do
her.”
Anouma nodded, watched the girl calm suddenly, her breathing watery and slow.
Bastien handed the ultrasound over, checking the rain that was blowing onto their
temporary operating room.
“Get that inside,” he said. “we’ll have to move her to the back until it’s over.”
Anouma nodded, pushed the heavy wooden doors in and paced back to the crash
station, setting the machine atop the counter absent-mindedly.
“Are we dying?” asked the lone voice, in French, nervously.
Anouma turned back to the room, curtains and beds and drip bags everywhere,
and had no idea whose voice it was.
“You are fine,” she lied. “The girl was fine. It was just a cold, nothing more.”
47
No one answered.
As she made her way to the front, she heard the sound of Dr Bastien shouting. She
ran to the door, pushed into the cold, wet air, and saw the old man yelling into the rain.
There, in the middle of the ambulance bay, was a dark figure wrapped tight in leather
and metal, and Anouma gasped.
A Healer.
48
09
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
“You will not pass this door!” Bastien growled. “Go back east, you monster!”
The Healer carefully raised a hand and tapped his right temple with a finger.
Anouma glanced over as Bastien mirrored the action, a faded tattoo etched on his face,
four short bars. He touched them gingerly, as if they stung.
“Yes, I remember,” Bastien spat. “And it won’t be repeated! This is my redemption!
Go kill somewhere else!”
Bastien picked up the girl with some effort, glanced over at Anouma.
“I’ll be in the back. Lock the doors behind us.”
“But—” she started.
“Do it, Fanta,” he grunted. “He cannot be allowed inside.”
She nodded solemnly, opened the door for the old man, then crept in herself,
locking the dead bolt in the middle of the panelling. The doors were thick and old, but
something about the seal said they couldn’t really be closed against someone who
wanted in badly enough. She nervously glanced outside, through the tall window in the
door.
The bay was empty. Rain poured freely down, rushing off the faded ‘Ambulance’
sign like a waterfall, the backed-up drain in the centre of the pavement unable to keep
up with demand. The thing had gone. She leaned closer, trying to see around the
corner—
A mask shot into view, right against the window, meeting her gaze, and she yelped.
Warm, processed breath hissed out of the ventilation ducts by his neck, fogging the
glass in irregular bursts. Anouma recoiled, but was too scared to run.
49
The Healer stared at her dispassionately, then looked over, carefully and
deliberately, to the dead bolt. Then he looked at her again. She shivered, shook her
head ‘no’. She darted her eyes over, checked that she had really locked it.
There was no movement for some time.
He stepped back one pace, not breaking eye contact, and without warning,
slammed his hand against the glass. She jumped back in shock, pushed a fist against
the lock, held her breath.
He was taping a paper to the window, in short, almost mechanical motions. She
backed up further from the door, bumping into a gurney left on the far wall, draped
with sheets to cover the bloodstains the doctors had been unable to clean off. She
gripped the cold metal bars for support.
Once the paper was fully fastened, the Healer turned and began walking away
without a pause; down the steps, through the growing puddle, past the waterfall sign,
and around the corner. Anouma waited another minute or two before moving forward,
checking more closely.
She exhaled for the first time in what seemed like hours, and pressed her forehead
against the door, trying to get back her nerves.
“He is gone,” she said to herself. “You did fine. You did fine.”
She looked up, saw the poster he’d left. An information sheet in French, in clear
and clinical grammar: symptoms of a strain called ‘LS-411’. How to diagnose it. How
not to treat it. It was always fatal. She lightly touched her fingers against the window,
her mouth falling open, and gasped at the photo of the lesions to take care for.
She ran to the stairwell without a word.
* * *
Franz stripped the plastic wrap from a stale hospital sandwich at the bottom of a
dark green dumpster, trembling hands nearly losing the cheese and ham. He shoved it
into his mouth, chewing furiously, and licked off his grimy fingers, darting nervous
glances out past the bags above him.
“Franz!” hissed Luka, half-peering over the edge inside.
“Still nothing!” Franz replied, trying to conceal his chewing. “Looking!”
50
Luka lifted his head a bit higher, leaned over the edge, but kept his eyes elsewhere.
“Not that,” he whispered urgently. “You have to see this.”
Franz frowned, got to his feet, and stood on a crushed plastic bin for a better view.
Out in the clearing, slowly pacing around the west side of Building A was something
he’d never seen before.
“A Healer?” Luka asked cautiously.
“Looks like it,” said Franz. “Quick, help me out.”
He landed on the wet pavement, pulling his worn hood over his hair against the
rain, and joined his friend back behind the dumpster, out of sight, as the figure walked
past. They watched him from the dank shadows, white eyes wide in fear, or anger.
“Come on,” Franz nudged, and they followed, hands in pockets, as if on a casual
stroll.
The Healer turned a corner, into an alley, and the two of them paused at the
entrance, looked around. The street was deserted. Behind them, the forest was awash
in orange leaves dissolving in the rain. Franz checked a pile of garbage, found a heavy
wood plank and an old rusted pipe in the mix. He handed the wood to Luka, motioned
to head in.
The Healer was staring at an open window on the third floor, its fire escape too
high to reach. He ran his finger along the handleless metal door before him, the only
break in the ominous concrete structure. He backed away carefully, then he lowered
his head, paused, and turned around to see Franz and Luka, inching toward him,
closing in on their prey.
“Fuckin’ killer,” Franz spat, swinging the pipe from side to side. “Come to finish
what you started, eh?”
He lashed out with the pipe at a distance, and the Healer stepped back, held his
hands up, cautiously, as if he were asking for peace. Still, no words. No expression to
read.
“Not so smug, are ya?” Luka said, circling the Healer menacingly. “Couldn’t kill us
all with your germs, so now y’have to fight like a man!”
“He’s not a man,” Franz sneered. “A man has a soul. This is a baby-killer!”
51
Luka’s eyes started to water, his face twisting, and Franz gaped at the sight. Luka
wiped his eyes with his sleeve furiously, choking back tears, and his face turned red as
anger rushed through him.
“My son!” he screamed, and charged, swinging the board straight at the Healer’s
head. Its hand moved fast, bracing up to deflect the blow, and the board snapped in
two. The loose side flew against the wall in a shower of splinters. Luka skidded straight
into the Healer, who caught him by the throat with the other metallic hand, held him
tight.
Luka’s passion drained fast, so close to the mask, and he gasped for desperate
breaths, dropping the rest of the board at his feet.
The Healer spoke in a raspy, processed voice. Words neither of them understood.
Tears kept running down Luka’s cheeks, but he never stopped staring into the empty
goggles.
Then, the Healer cocked his head slightly, and ducked out of the way as Franz’s
pipe swung past. It missed him, smashed into the side of Luka’s face, a loud crunch
echoing out. The Healer dropped the body and stepped aside, facing his next opponent.
Franz gasped at the sight of his friend in a pool of blood, his pipe smeared red too.
He re-gripped the metal, inhaled slowly, letting his fury boil over.
“You fucking murderer!” he screamed, and charged again, swinging madly. The
Healer side-stepped the attack, grabbed the pipe and twisted. Franz felt his wrist pop,
and he lost his grip, his footing. A rough hand grabbed the back of his coat, shoving
him into the hospital wall. He stumbled back, nose bleeding, then was dragged by his
hair, crying out in pain.
The Healer held the pipe up as if to strike, but then tossed it away, across the alley,
never taking his gaze of Franz. He spoke, again in a tongue Franz didn’t understand.
“Fuck you,” Franz said through the blood and pain. “Fuck you and fuck your
Chinese whore mother.”
No reaction. Franz spat blood onto the mask.
Then he noticed it… the handle of a blade on the belt. A machete. He made a mad
grab for it, snatching the tip with his fingers. The hand pulled his hair tighter, and he
looked up. The Healer shook his head ‘no’. Very slowly. Very solidly.
52
Rain poured down, running across his battered face, drips pounding into the hand
on the blade. He felt the strain of the grip on his hair, but saw no emotion in the mask,
and it unnerved him.
He pulled, heard the blade come free, and in a moment of elation, pulled it back to
thrust… his face betraying a smile…
But just as quickly, the Healer planted a calculated blow to his chest, felt his ribs
crack, and the machete fell from his hand, straight into the enemy’s. He desperately
gasped for breath, but none came. And then in an instant, he felt a hand on his chin, a
quick crack, and then nothing at all.
The Healer carefully lowered the body to the ground, laying the arms across the
chest respectfully. He glanced back at Luka, the pool of blood growing and diluting in
the rain, running down the slight incline towards the sewers.
A woman screamed hysterically, and he stood quickly, machete ready. She stood at
the entrance to the alley, hand to her mouth, her soaked clothes dripping dirty water
in streams at her feet. She stumbled back, eyes darting between Franz, Luka and the
Healer, terrified.
She yelled for help, called for the police, and ran off, out of view, leaving him alone,
isolated. He quickly looked around himself, machete loose in his hand, backed himself
into the corner with enough room to fight. He heard the sounds of angry men yelling,
of metal and wood and other would-be weapons being pulled out of trash bins. The
sounds of an angry mob forming.
“You!” called a French voice from behind, and he turned, saw the metal door, now
open. Anouma leaned out carefully, anxiously. “This way! Hurry!” she hissed.
53
10
PRAHA 5 POLICE STATION, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The end of the hall was shut off with misty plastic taped to the walls, ceiling and
floor. A biohazard sticker was peeling off in the middle. Eva slowed her pace as she
approached it, but the cops shoved her forward, then jerked her to a stop at a door to
her right. A paper hung over the ‘Janitor’ sign.
“Interrogation Room B,” Eva muttered.
“Someone sneezed in A,” the female cop grunted, opening the door to a tiny room,
a table improbably wedged inside a closet space. “Lucky you.”
Eva was thrown into the chair at the back of the table, landing with a whimper. The
two cops sidled around to the far side, sat down casually, and leaned back in silence.
The woman was thickly built, with a strong jaw and short hair, cut in a five-yeartoo-late style. The man was gruff, large and balding, his brow deep; when he clenched
his jaw, it almost changed the shape of his face as the bones clicked into a new
arrangement.
“Ms Kolikov,” began the woman, not making eye contact. “My name is Inspector
Sobotka. This is Inspector Crew.”
“You’re… you’re Foreign Police?” Eva ventured.
Crew chortled, stroked his stubbly chin.
“Why? Not an immigrant, are you?”
Eva met his eyes nervously.
“No…” she answered.
“Good thing. Shouldn’t be any immigrants any more, yeah?”
54
“No, Ms Kolikov,” smirked Sobotka. “We’re just your average cops, taking care of
average business.”
Eva watched them watching her, said nothing.
“Of course,” mused Crew, “my papa was with the Foreign Police. Must have some
of it in my blood, yeah? ‘Cause when I saw your file going by, I said to myself: that’s
someone we ought to have a chat with.”
“I thought so too,” nodded Sobotka.
“Pff, maybe just common sense then,” smirked Crew, leaning forward on the table
so it creaked under his immense weight. “We hear you had some trouble on the train.”
“It was a big misunderstanding,” Eva stammered. “I was just talking to this officer
when someone came out of nowhere and beat him up, and…”
“Killed two guards?”
“Really, I had nothing to do with that. I swear.”
They stared at her seriously for a moment, then Crew yawned noisily.
“Let’s move on. Tell us about Paris.”
Eva blinked.
“I… uh… well, I went to school there. University.”
“Studying what?” Sobotka queried, clicking a pen open, and flipping through a few
papers in a folder.
“Fine arts,” Eva replied.
“What about computer science? I have you enrolled in that, but nothing about fine
arts. That’s pretty strange, now isn’t it?”
“I switched majors.”
“Interesting. What was your minor? Biology, maybe?”
Eva paused, swallowed slowly.
“No,” she said softly.
“I’m sorry, hearing’s going; what did you say?” Crew asked, cupping his hand to
his ear.
“I didn’t study biology,” Eva said clearly, then sat up a bit straighter, squinted at
them like she was preparing for a storm.
“How long have you been making viruses?” Sobotka asked.
55
Eva didn’t flinch.
“I don’t make viruses,” she replied. “I’m a painter. I make—”
“Yeah, yeah, yeah,” interrupted Crew, waving his hand at her. “and the hitman’s
not a hitman, he’s a plumber. You’re not the first to dream up a cover, kid.”
“It’s not a cover. I don’t make viruses. I wouldn’t even know where to start.”
Crew grunted, stood up roughly.
“I’ve gotta piss,” he said, slapping his partner on the shoulder. “Call me when she
stops lying.”
Sobotka eyed Eva carefully as Crew strode out of the room. She folded her hands
together, leaned forward slightly.
“What’s up with your mum?”
Eva looked up like she’d been run over by a car.
“I don’t know,” she said.
“You two were close?”
“Y-yes.”
“All that time you were roaming around Europe, she found a way to get you care
packages every month. Not many parents would do that kind of thing.”
“I… I guess.”
Eva exhaled deeply, sunk a bit lower in her chair. Sobotka leaned back, crossed her
arms, stared at the wall past Eva.
“We heard you watching the news this morning. Did you happen to catch the story
about the kid with the breakfast cereal?”
Eva’s eyes shifted left and right.
“Um. Yeah.”
“That was us. I mean, we found the kid. Used to be, we’d be chasing murderers and
thugs and thieves and such. Now we call it a victory if we find a kid who kept himself
alive without our help.”
“It’s good he’s alive.”
“He’s got Bonn-22. A week to live, tops.”
Eva said nothing.
56
“But you can see how, after living and breathing that shit for the last few years,
when we see someone like you in our fair city, it brings a certain… liveliness to our
day.”
A grunting from the hall signalled Crew’s return, and the door swung open as he
lurched in, a large machine in tow. He lifted it with two hands, creaking its handle, and
dropped it on the table in front of Eva. It was browned and burnt, cracked in places
and looked to be barely functional. Its large, square screen was warped, and the clear
glass canister in its core was growing mould at the edges. Still, it was clear to Eva what
it was.
“An incubator?” she asked.
“Oh, so you do know about making viruses!”
“No, I—”
“What was your mum doing with a pack of refill capsules?” Sobotka asked, a smirk
on her face. Crew dropped himself into his seat, put a foot on the table.
“I don’t know,” Eva said quietly.
“You don’t know?” Sobotka continued. “Okay, let me try this again. You mother
was in possession of some highly illegal materials, as well as numerous documents
relating to the manufacture of viruses. Why do you think that is?”
“She’s an expert at epidemiology. It’s probably part of her research.”
“Sure. I get it. Yeah. So… switching gears… let’s talk about travel. Where’ve you
been since you left Paris?”
Eva shifted in her seat.
“A bunch of places,” Eva said, willing her face not to flush. “Spain, Italy, Austria,
Germany. I passed through others on the way, but it’s tricky to get past borders because
of the outbreaks.”
Sobotka nodded.
“Must have been hard,” she said, almost kindly. “But you seem to have made it
through all right. Did you travel alone?”
Eva paused.
“No,” she said.
57
“Our records show you were with someone named, one second...” Sobotka flipped
open a folder, skimmed a few pages. Crew leaned over, pointed down to a spot low on
the page, and she nodded to him. “Right, Rhodri Tenant. British national. Is that
right?”
Eva nodded: “Yes.”
“Boyfriend?”
“Was.”
“Bad break-up?”
Eva looked at her hands, fidgeted her thumbs.
“I’d rather not talk about him,” she said quietly.
Sobotka paused, nodded.
“Fair enough,” she said. “We’re here for you anyway.”
Crew grinned.
“So when did you start making viruses?” he asked.
“I told you, I don’t make viruses! I don’t know how!”
“But you’re pretty good at computers, right?”
“I don’t know. Just average, I guess.”
Crew scratched his cheek absentmindedly.
“You got into the University of Paris’ computer science graduate program. As a
foreign student. At nineteen. That’s gotta say something about your skills, right?”
She didn’t reply. He put his other foot on the table, waved his muddy boots from
side to side.
“See, my question is this: why wouldn’t you look at making viruses? Someone like
you, having a doctor for a mum, and this computer science education, and that stint in
prison—”
“Excuse me?” Eva gasped, her face turning bright red.
“The year in prison? What, you forgot?”
“I… how did you…”
“Oh, it’s all right here. Hacked a bank when you were fifteen, left behind enough
crumbs that the cops up in Sweden found you, and spent a year in jail for it.”
Eva’s eyes were starting to water. Sobotka continued.
58
“And what’s shocking to me is that it says here that your father was the one that
requested you be tried as an adult. Your own father! That must have stung.”
“Her dad’s a dick,” Crew nodded.
“Those files were supposed to be sealed,” Eva muttered.
“It’s funny,” Crew said, cracking his knuckles. “Things have a way of unsealing
themselves, when they meet the right criteria.”
“What kind of criteria?” Eva asked.
“A pattern of using technology for criminal acts. Hacking banks, making viruses.
It’s a bit of an evolution of technique, but it sounds the same to me.”
“I don’t make viruses!” Eva shouted, tears in her eyes.
“Let’s come back to that,” Sobotka said, leaning forward as Crew looked away. “See,
looking at your travel history these last few years… what strikes me is that you seem to
have been in a variety of cities around Europe just before they got shut down with
major outbreaks.”
“We left when things were looking bad.”
“I’ll say.”
“A lot of people left when things were looking bad. Wouldn’t you?”
“I dunno,” mused Crew. “I think I’d stick it out and fight for my city. How ‘bout
you, Sobotka?”
Sobotka nodded slowly.
“How’d your mother take being fired, Ms Kolikov?” she asked.
“Excuse me?”
“Your mother was fired from the World Health Organization three weeks ago.
Dereliction of duty. After twenty years of service. She got chewed out pretty bad in
public. That must have hurt her.”
“I… I didn’t know.”
“When did you talk to her last?”
“About two months ago. I haven’t been able to reach her since.”
“Not even last night?”
Eva blinked. The two inspectors were stone-faced, but their tone spoke volumes
about their confidence. She was headed into a trap, and she had no idea what it was.
59
“What about last night?”
“You’re entitled to a lawyer, of course, but it’s not easy getting one here in person
anymore. Especially to defend foreigners. Foreigners who just arrived.”
“I don’t understand —”
“Modena, Italy. Graz, Austria. Linz, Austria. Nuremberg, Germany. It seems pretty
odd that every time you and your boyfriend leave a town, a massive outbreak hits and
wipes out half the population. Doesn’t it?”
Eva said nothing, clasped her hands together.
“You can imagine how excited we are that you stopped by,” she said darkly.
“Especially given the little warning you sent us.”
Eva looked back and forth to them, eyes wide.
“What warning?”
Crew snorted, flipped out his phone and tapped a few buttons. He handed it over
to her, screen sideways, and she saw a video playing…
Time-lapse clouds rolled through grey skies, distorted at the edges by flickering
compression. There was audio to it, faint on the tiny speaker, but she thought it might
be German. Then, atop the clouds, letter in cold, stark black letters: “January 8:
Modena-1”.
“That was sent to the Mayor’s office three weeks ago,” Sobotka said. “The voice is
computer-generated, totally fake. Speaking German. Took us a while to translate, but
this is the gist…”
“March 2: Graz-3,” the screen said now.
“Let’s see,” Sobotka said, flipping through her notes, then read dryly: “The greed
and hypocrisy of society is a cancer on humanity which must be removed at all costs
before the blah, blah, blah. You get the point.”
“I don’t… I don’t understand…” Eva said. “What does this have to do with me?”
“April 21: Linz-1,” said the text.
“The video arrived through a proxied mail server in Russia, but since the Russians
have become so touchy about communications lately, they were able to tell us where it
came from before it hit their borders. And you’ll never guess what we found.”
“July 6: Nuremberg-5,” said the text.
60
“The originating account was registered to your mother,” Sobotka said, leaning in.
“But apparently, there was a secondary account on the file. Your account. And
forensics is pretty sure it’s a match.”
Eva blinked, looked from Sobotka to Crew and back again, felt her stomach turn
inside out. She looked down at the video, saw the words changing again, and gasped
when she read them:
“December 1: Prague-1.”
She looked up at the inspectors, panic swelling over her.
“So tell me, Ms Kolikov,” said Crew. “How’re we gonna die on December 1?”
61
11
PRAHA 5 POLICE STATION, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Eva was trembling, tears in her eyes.
“This isn’t me. I didn’t… I don’t know anything about this!”
“Your history of criminal behaviour indicates otherwise,” said Sobotka. “So what
did you do? Come home with a new brew ready to strike, found out your mother’d had
a change of heart? Killed her to keep her quiet? Is that it?”
“Killed her? She’s dead?” she cried. “No, that’s not… What’s going on? Where is
she?”
Crew chortled.
“You tell us.”
Sobotka slammed her fist down on the table, jolting Eva into silence.
“Ms Kolikov, you’re going to want to be a bit more forthcoming with us. The courts
being what they are these days, it can take months to get you to trial. And honestly, a
lot of prisoners come in with the sniffles—”
“Hold up,” Crew interrupted. “We don’t have time for—”
“Give me a minute,” Sobotka warned, then turned back to Eva. “I’m going to highly
recommend you tell us what we want to know, or we’ll have no reason to keep you in
isolation. Do you understand me?”
“Oh come on,” Crew vented. “Give me five minutes alone with her, that’s all we’ll—
”
Sobotka held a calming hand out to her partner and he paused, looked away, barely
keeping his frustration in check. Sobotka leaned close to Eva, squinting.
62
“I don’t think you’re going to tell us anything,” she said. “I think you’ll stonewall to
the end. And every minute I spend in here with you is another minute I’m not out there,
hunting the damn virus. So if you’re not going to come clean, tell me now so I can stop
wasting my time.”
“But I honestly don’t know what this is all about… you have to believe me…
please…”
Crew clenched his fists, looked like he was on the verge of boiling over with fury.
“Listen, you spoiled brat,” he seethed. “It may not look it to you, but this city ain’t
dead yet. This is my home. Even if I have to boil and sterilize every drop of water I use
in the shower, it’s still better than packing up and giving up. That’s what you and your
kind don’t get, and it makes me sick. It’s no great loss if Prague is wiped off the map,
right? Well you’re wrong!”
He got to his feet, shoving the chair against the wall. It toppled over behind him.
Eva jerked back, but he caught her by the hair, held her tight, leaned in furiously.
“Tell us where the virus is!” he yelled. “We don’t have time to watch you play
innocent here! Tell us where it is or I’m sending you to the most crowded cell I can
find, I swear to god!”
Eva was crying, trying to get free of his grip, pleading.
“Please…” she sobbed. “please, I don’t know… I don’t know anything about it…
please…”
“Crew, come on,” said Sobotka, stepping into the hall. “It’s not going to work. Leave
it.”
“Fuck it!” Crew growled, and slammed her head down into the table with such force
her nose started to tingle. She tasted blood in the back of her throat, her eyes swirled
with light. Crew stormed to the door, put his head in his hands, trying to regain his
composure.
“You’re going into lockup,” he growled. “and you’re not getting out.”
“Wait…” Eva sputtered, reaching out to him feebly.
“Too bad mama can’t help you now, hmm?” he smirked, and left the room,
slammed the door so powerfully it sounded like cracking wood. A thin shaft of light
63
beamed in along the bottom. Outside, shadows moved across the doorway, and she
heard the inspectors talking again.
“Forgot my keys,” called Crew. “Lock it for me.”
Footsteps came closer, a jingling, a sorting of keys, and Eva tensed.
“How much do you think she knows?” asked Sobotka.
“Who gives a shit. We’ve got to keep working the angles. We got any leads yet?”
Crew said, hushed.
“A few hits. It’ll take us a while to cover them all. You got time?”
“Apparently just a few days. Any ideas on where to start looking?”
“None, really. It’s complicated by her… you know…”
“Yeah.”
“So let’s print out a list and pick a place at random.”
Just then, Eva heard the faint ring of a cell phone, Crew answered, his voice quiet
and more distant as he walked away from the door. Then a click as the phone shut, and
he called to his partner: “We’ve gotta go. Something big in the west end. Captain says
Sestak’s asking for us directly.”
Hurried footsteps disappeared into echoes, and Eva was left in awful silence, the
wedge of light cutting straight across her ankles. She breathed slowly, shakily, waiting.
“Hello?” she asked the darkness. “Anyone coming to get me?”
She couldn’t hear a thing beyond her own breathing.
Carefully, quietly, she got out from her seat and edged towards the door. No sounds
at all. She touched the doorknob tentatively, listened for a sound, a voice, anything to
make her pause.
She turned the knob gently, and it clicked, popping the door open slightly. She
creaked it out further and peeked outside.
The hallway was yellowing like old paper; filthy water streaked the floor, no people
in sight. Eva leaned her head further out, checked both ways, and saw nothing. Nothing
to stop her. She shivered.
“I’m leaving the room now…” she whispered.
64
Less than a metre from the room, Eva heard a scuffle up ahead, like a paper
shifting. She froze, eyes wide. She heard a loud sigh, and a grunt. She searched the
hallway for someplace to hide.
There, a few steps ahead, another door off to her right, half-closed, lights off. She
waited, listened. The air filters in the ceiling hummed and hissed, and the fan
somewhere nearby ground its gears with a grating rumble. Then, another scuffle,
footsteps.
Eva held her breath and made a dash for the room, slipped inside and back behind
the door, the darkness piercing after the light of the hallway. She let the breath out
slowly, evenly, tried to hear outside again.
Footsteps now, closer, and she could see through the back of the door, black boots
outside the room, paused. Breathing, she heard breathing. A long pause.
The boots slid back a bit, then turned, and she could hear muttering as the
footsteps got further away. A calm, even pace. Eva exhaled again, her lungs loosening
a bit. She leaned closer to the hinges now, saw into the hall, empty as before.
She turned round to leave when she noticed, back against the wall next to her, a
computer workstation. The screen was off, but its power light was on, casting a pale
green light across the room.
A police workstation.
She carefully and quietly slid over to the chair, sat down. It creaked a bit, and she
strained not to move anymore. She turned the brightness on the screen all the way
down with the dial on the front, and then powered it on. She could make out the words,
but took a moment to take in all the information.
There was a search box in the corner, cursor flashing on and off, inviting input.
Checking over her shoulder, Eva typed: ‘Kolikov’, and hit ‘enter’.
The screen refreshed in a second, showed two entries. Eva’s file, and Dasa Kolikov,
her mother. She hovered the cursor over her mother’s name, then clicked her own,
bringing up a file that included her passport photo and a few stills from the security
cameras on the train. She skimmed the file quickly, pausing only to try and discern the
meaning of ‘17-5’. No luck there, so she tore through the data, deleting and fabricating
65
information as fast as possible. By the time she finished, they’d know nothing about
her at all.
She smiled at a job well done and hit the ‘back’ button, diving into her mother’s
file. What she found was worse than she’d expected:
ARREST WARRANT #058833153
CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT MURDER
BIO-WEAPONS ACT VIOLATIONS
Eva involuntarily put a hand to her mouth, gasped quietly.
“Oh, mama…” she said. “What happened?”
She heard a crackle in the room, but no time to react. A hand wrapped round Eva’s
mouth, pushing down, and she couldn’t breathe. She flailed, cracking her wrist against
a desk, and wasting the last of her breath on a scream no one could hear.
66
12
SKIPTON HOUSE, LONDON, ENGLAND
NOVEMBER 28
“I didn’t expect to see you here so soon, Will,” said the Director as Carey shuffled
in the door, a pack of papers under his arm. He smiled weakly, made his way to the
chair opposite his boss’ giant throne of a seat, and almost fell into it. Janice trailed him
like an impressive shadow; the kind that outshines its owner.
The room was like a photo gallery, a shrine to people the Director knew (or had
been photographed with). Carey could see former Prime Ministers, rock stars, athletes
and famous scientists. One picture of the current Prime Minister had a message
scrawled across the front in silver ink: ‘We’ll beat this together!’ — the slogan he’d won
on.
Everything about the room was ‘old school.’ The desk looked to be over a hundred
years old, the lamps and general decor smelled of Victorian spit and polish. There was
a large map on the back wall — the biggest single space in the room not yet turned into
a mosaic of tiny frames — showing the British Empire sometime before the First World
War.
The Director was a man who loved glory, who killed and mounted it on his walls to
show his dominion over it.
“Sorry to barge in like this, sir,” Carey said, trying to gather some of the papers
back into something resembling a pile. He knocked an ink blotter off the edge of the
desk and ducked down after it, smacking his head against the desk on the way. He
came back up holding his head and the blotter, and his papers drifted out of his hands
and onto the floor. Janice sighed loudly.
“Sorry, sorry…” Carey said again.
67
“Not at all, Will, not at all!” boomed the Director, apparently enjoying how his
office intimidated people. “Listen, would you like a drink? And you, miss?”
“No, sir. Thank you, sir,” said Janice flawlessly.
“Um, if you don’t—” Carey began, before Janice kicked his shin so subtly she nearly
didn’t move. “I mean no sir, I’m good, thanks.”
The Director nodded at this, leaned back in his chair, started spinning an ornate
letter opener on his desk in a way that made Carey sweat. He grabbed the top paper
from his pile and nervously, shakily, handed it over.
“We’ve found something, sir,” he said, and tapped the paper lightly. “Something
that could be quite bad.”
The Director took the paper lightly, nudged his reading glasses on his long pointed
nose and sniffed loudly, like he was jarring his brain into gear. He smacked his lips
once or twice, squinted, and then started to read it, because his face hardened abruptly.
He looked up, and Carey immediately looked away.
“What is this?” the Director asked, his voice low.
“Um… Janice?” Carey invited.
Janice cleared her throat to speak, but the Director leaned forward suddenly, with
a low growl to his voice.
“This is a senior level meeting, my dear. You’re excused.”
“But sir,” protested Carey. “Janice is—”
“Not a part of this conversation, Will. You are excused, miss.”
Janice blinked, confused, but then put on her more composed face, and carefully
backed out of the room without a word. Carey was left alone with the stone-faced man
with the old colonial empire at his back, and he felt horribly alone.
“You were stationed in Madrid, weren’t you, Will?” the Director said, creaking back
in his chair.
“Yes. Yes sir. Eight years.”
“So you’re a team player. You know what’s at stake here. I don’t need to go over
how a little information can do a lot of wrong.”
Carey shook his head slowly.
“No, sir.”
68
“Excellent. So tell me about these papers, Will.”
“It’s… it’s… well, it’s the transmission logs for Zemus Pharmaceuticals, sir. It seems
that they’re… uh… they seem to be integrating vaccines into their booster shot
programme without… er… testing them.”
“Are we sure about this?” said the Director, his voice dispassionate but somehow
accusing.
“Yes, sir, we are. And we… we think we’ve found out why.”
Carey handed over the next set of papers in the stack, a listing of communications
in excruciating detail, complete with timestamps and origin addresses.
“It… at first we thought Zemus had been… well, maybe compromised by some
malicious persons. Trying to… you know… well…”
“Spread a virus through a booster shot,” said the Director, obviously quicker than
Carey had been.
“But… well… as you can see, sir, the bypass orders all came from a single person, a
registered person, and we have good reason to believe he was the one making the
inputs himself.”
The Director looked up from the paper, bore into Carey.
“Is this who I think it is?”
“Yes, sir, I’m afraid so.”
The Director laid the paper down on his desk, folded his hands above it, closed his
eyes. His jowls trembled as he breathed, and he looked like a beast from a nature video,
so unreal you wouldn’t have believed it existed. The Director’s brow furrowed slightly.
He was thinking, and Carey felt like he was intruding on a private moment.
“Will,” the Director said, opening his eyes, staring coldly at Carey. “Thank you for
bringing this to my attention.”
He paused again, seemed to be thinking, sniffed, his face twitched. He licked his
lips slowly, then leaned forward, his suit’s worn elbows pushing down on the scattered
papers around the desk.
“Can I ask… what made you leave Madrid? Was it stress? Family?”
Carey looked at his hands.
“I was recalled, sir. The… uh… the Dominguez case, if you know it.”
69
“I don’t think I do.”
Carey continued to avoid eye contact.
“To be brief, sir: there was a woman named Rosa Dominguez who hadn’t made it
back before the Containment Order went into force, and had since tested positive for
P-150.”
“So the boys in Brighton would have refused to quarantine her, even if you let her
back in.”
“Exactly. I was tasked with delivering her Notice of Exile, but her name made it
extremely hard to pin her down. I eventually did, down in Alicante, at a spa there. She’d
apparently saved for years for a vacation, and had decided to go through with it despite
the border closing.”
“Foolish,” the Director said with a grunt. “Foolish and tragic.”
“Ms Dominguez was a rather stubborn woman, I’m afraid. She refused to come out
of her full body mud pack session to meet me, so I was forced to go in and deliver her
Notice against her wishes.”
“It was the right thing to do, Will. Absolutely the only call.”
“Yes sir. Well… Ms Dominguez didn’t see it that way. She filed suit against the
Ministry for sexual harassment. Given the… uh… full-body nature of the mud pack.”
“Ah. I see.”
“They settled rather than suffer the publicity, and I was put behind a desk in your
fine department, sir.”
“And what of Ms Dominguez?”
“She used the settlement money to buy the spa.”
“Good on everyone, then.”
Carey nodded unhappily.
“Yes, sir.”
“Well then,” the Director said, puffing up again. “How do you feel about working
behind a desk?”
Carey was automatic and severely mechanical:
“Very good, sir. Most rewarding.”
70
“I don’t think you believe that, Will. I think you’re hating it. Papers and
spreadsheets and kissing the right ass in the right way… it’s not who you are, is it?”
Carey honestly did not know what to say.
The Director took the papers he’d received, held them under his desk, and Carey
heard the sound of a paper shredder eating the evidence. The Director didn’t take his
eyes off Carey, just sat there as the sounds whirred below, like he wasn’t doing what he
was doing, and anyone that indicated otherwise was mad.
The last of the papers disappeared and the Director put his hands back on his desk,
interlocking his calloused fingers lightly.
“I am removing you from your position in the Department.”
“But sir—”
“You are now working as my chief investigator. You report to me, and me alone. I
want you to use your experience on the Continent to keep things at home under better
control. Starting with this Zemus mess. It must be dealt with quickly and quietly. No
one but the two of us should hear of it, do you understand me?”
“Yes sir,” nodded Carey, then shuddered. “But sir! Janice knows! What should we—
”
“Janice is replacing you as department head, of course. She’s got a good head on
her shoulders, I can tell. But even still, what she knows — without the backing evidence
— that’s inconsequential. From here on out, these secrets stay between us.”
“Yes sir.”
“Zemus have a new booster coming out in three weeks, and I don’t think anyone
could stand the financial or political fallout if it were to be pulled over a scandal.”
“Sir…?”
The Director leaned in close, eyes narrow, his voice so quiet, Carey found himself
leaning forward to hear.
“I’ve known this man my entire life. He is a good soul, Will, a very good fellow. And
yet…” his gaze shifted, he was looking past Carey, but at nothing, “… yet, I can see this
being true. I can see him doing this because he thinks it’s the best way to protect the
public.”
Carey nodded.
71
“But it’s against the law,” said the Director, and Carey stopped nodding abruptly,
frowned. “And he has to learn to accept it. So I need you to talk to him, Will, and let
him know that we know, and unless he quits now, it’ll only be a matter of time before
it gets out. You tell him — not for me, you understand — you tell him that he needs to
submit those vaccines for proper testing, and to follow normal procedure from now
on.”
Carey nodded weakly, understanding.
“He means well. But one mistake could…” he met Carey’s eyes, and he was sad, sad
for his friend and the trouble this would be. “One mistake could gut our country, Will.
You have to make him understand.”
72
13
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The rear stairwell to the hospital was dark and dank, littered with junk that had
accumulated over years of disuse. Down on the ground level, masses of biohazard
canisters littered the floor, scratched and worn by staff that had left long ago. No one
had been in this shaft for some time; the only lighting was the thin strip of red
emergency beacons along the edge of the steps.
Anouma faced the Healer, his cold visage made demonic by the surroundings. She
was exposed here, alone in a place where no one would find her body for weeks — if
ever. Alone with a murderer. She grabbed the railing with a slippery hand, her
handheld flashlight dangling from the lanyard around her neck.
“Why are you here?” she asked, her voice cracking, her French precise, tentative.
The Healer observed her for a moment.
“You know why I am here,” he replied, rough and distorted through his mask. “You
have information about LS-411. You will tell me now.”
He took a step forward, and Anouma held out a warning hand, her jaw setting.
“I want to know what you will do if you find this strain. What are your orders?”
“My orders are to diagnose and contain.”
“Contain how?” she asked, lowering her arm but not breaking her eye lock.
The Healer didn’t move for a moment, except to twitch his head to the side.
“Containment requires the destruction of the host, usually by lethal injection.
Sometimes incineration is deemed necessary, as well.”
Anouma nodded slowly, her eye twitching with fury.
73
“So you find the sick and kill them? They did not do this to themselves! The ones
that infected them are still out there, and you let them go?”
The Healer was shaking his head at her.
“Euthanizing the general population is inefficient. It is not my commission. I
contain only the vectors.”
“The vectors…”
“The hosts that infect the rest. The closer to the source, the better. These diseases
tend to be built poorly. They lose virulent qualities as they pass each generation. The
closer to the source, the greater the effectiveness of containment.”
“So if my patient is the vector for LS-411…”
“I will perform my duty.”
Anouma crossed her arms, shook her head.
“That is unacceptable. I cannot let you do that.”
The Healer stared up the stairwell, back at Anouma.
“You have confirmed the patient is here. Your permission is irrelevant.”
He turned and started up the stairs, a soft metal clang at every footfall. Anouma
called after him as he reached the first landing.
“This is one of the biggest hospitals in Europe!” she said, her voice cracking with
anger. “In this wing alone, we have seven usable floors, with a thousand patients per
floor.”
The Healer turned around, stepped a few steps down, stared at her ominously in
the red light. She kept her arms crossed, stood her ground.
“And I have not said if the patient is in this wing at all.”
There was a brief pause. A liquid dripped in the shadows, hit a pool amongst the
biohazard containers. It sounded thick.
“What do you want?” the Healer said.
“You must promise you will not kill him.”
“That is not in my power to promise,” he said, shaking his head.
“Then I wish you good luck up there. Especially once I tell the police you broke in.”
74
The Healer made its way down the stairs again, moved quickly and silently towards
Anouma, until he had her pinned against the railing. His mask hissed spent carbon
dioxide into her face.
“I can get the information from you however I choose,” he breathed angrily. “I am
not bound by your doctors’ ethics.”
Her expression didn’t change.
“But I am, so I will never tell you. Never, unless you swear to leave him alive.”
Without warning, the Healer grabbed Anouma by the throat, pushed her back
against the concrete wall. His fingers tightened around her, but didn’t finish the job.
Anouma held her breath, terrified, but didn’t betray any emotion.
They stayed frozen, neither one budging.
The Healer let her go.
“I will not euthanize your patient,” he said, stepping away. “But you must show
him to me now. No more delays.”
Anouma rubbed her neck for a moment, then nodded and took her flashlight in her
hand again.
“This way,” she said, starting up the stairs. He followed close behind.
There was a general grit to the steps that was slippery, yet rough. She couldn’t see
what it was, nor did she see the glass that crunched harshly underfoot along the way.
They moved slowly, cautiously, careful to avoid stepping on used needles. Mouldy
pillows, shredded gowns, and a bloodstained sink lay cracked along the way.
“What is your name?” she asked as they passed the third floor.
The Healer thought a moment.
“We have no names,” it said, simply.
“Your French is better than I thought.”
There was a pause as they walked. The Healer sounded hesitant.
“We are trained to communicate with medical personnel.”
“You handle it well.”
“I… I have had time to practice.”
Another half-floor later, it spoke again:
“What is your name?”
75
“Dr Anouma,” she replied. “Fanta Anouma. Médecins Sans Frontières.”
“I know your colleagues.”
“And they know you, too. Here… wait here.”
She left him standing there on the steps and creaked open the fourth-floor fire
door. She leaned into the hallway beyond, the pale light casting a soft shadow in the
shaft next to him. He walked up behind the door, watched her carefully.
“Dr Anouma!” came a voice, a man, from the hall. Anouma jumped at the sound.
She drifted further out, let the door slide closed behind her, held open just enough for
her hand to peek through.
“Dr Laroche!” she said, failing to sound as calm as she wanted to be. “Is everything
okay?”
Dr Laroche was close now. The Healer could see his shadow mixed with Anouma’s
underneath the door.
“Fine, fine,” he said. “Just grabbing some supplies for the floor. Why are you using
the back stairwell? It’s not safe there, is it? There are discarded needles everywhere.”
The Healer tensed, lay a hand on his machete.
“Oh, no. I was just… I heard a young patient on the fifth floor talking about a special
fort he had built back here, and I thought I should check it out.”
“Really! The things kids dream up!”
“I know… it seemed silly to me, but—”
The door pushed open more, and Dr Laroche’s voice was near. The Healer
unsheathed his weapon, held it ready.
“Did you find anything?” Laroche asked.
“No!” Anouma gasped. “No, nothing. Many discarded needles, as you said. I would
not risk going in there. Who knows what people discarded.”
Dr Laroche chuckled to himself, but the door stayed open. The Healer did not
move.
“Might want to get the boy checked for dementia if he’s coming up with imaginary
forts in the darkness. Could be Waterloo or London-9. Wouldn’t want him crosscontaminating his roommates.”
“Certainly not, I agree. I will order the tests.”
76
A brief pause, and then the door swung shut.
“I’ll be down in the pit if you need anything!” Dr Laroche called, his voice getting
fainter as he walked away. “Say hello to Adjobi for me!”
“I will!” Anouma replied, then waited quietly for a minute, not moving at all. She
began to push the door open again. The Healer caught it with an impatient grab,
shoved it all the way open, and pushed past her into the hall.
“You lie well,” he said, taking stock of the surroundings. “Which one is it?”
“This one,” Anouma said, leading the way into a room halfway down the hall. She
came to a stop at the bedside of a sickly-looking African man, wired with a dozen
monitors and IVs, breathing weakly under the pressure of his yellowed hospital
blankets. His eyes were closed; they fluttered wildly in his sleep.
His skin sat on him strangely, like a man who was once full of life, round and happy,
and whose joy had been chiselled away until he was nearly a living corpse. A shadow
of better times ghosted in his face.
“This is the patient,” Anouma said solemnly. “My brother, Dr Adjobi Anouma.”
77
14
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Anouma took Adjobi’s hand and rubbed his fingers gently, and he opened his eyes.
At first he didn’t notice his visitor, but when he caught a glimpse of the mask, he
panicked, tried to climb up the back of his bed as if it were an escape route.
“Shhh, quiet, brother,” Anouma said, and put a hand on his shoulder, gently
pushing him back down. His heart monitor rang louder and louder, a red light flashing
more urgently on the console above the bed. An emergency call button. The Healer put
a hand on his machete.
“Quiet, quiet now,” Anouma said with a soft voice. “He is here to help you.”
She turned her gaze to the Healer, hopeful. After a brief moment, he put his hands
out, palms up, and bowed as a gesture of goodwill. It worked well enough: Adjobi’s
heart rate was calming fast. Anouma stroked her brother’s head, and though he was
much less agitated, his eyes were wide with fear.
“Adjobi and I came from Ferké three years ago—” she began.
“What is Ferké?” interrupted the Healer, “Where is this place?”
“What is it to you?” Adjobi said, then coughed a hoarse, dry cough.
“If your infection began in another town, I must travel. I have no information that
LS-411 is anywhere but Prague.”
“Ferkessédougou is in Côte d'Ivoire,” Anouma said. “In Africa.”
The Healer nodded slightly.
“There are no synthetic diseases down there,” Adjobi said, wincing at a sudden
pain. “Whatever it is I have, I got it right here.”
“Besides,” said Anouma, “they do not let sick doctors help in the relief.”
78
The Healer tilted his head.
“Relief,” he echoed.
“Six weeks ago,” Anouma continued. “these lesions appeared on Adjobi’s neck and
chest...” she held out his arm and showed a purplish patch no more than a few
centimetres across, shiny even in the dim light.
“At first we thought he had contracted something from one of the patients here, so
we started him on Pathenex and kept him in isolation. Unfortunately, the other
symptoms he developed do not fit with any disease we have encountered before. We
have compared it to every entry in the WHO Pandemic Database. No one has made a
virus this way before.”
The Healer leaned a bit closer to Adjobi, mask hissing at regular intervals.
“What other symptoms?” he asked.
Anouma held the LS-411 card, blocking his view; her voice grew stronger. A bit
more resolve.
“These,” she said simply, and dropped the card onto the bed. The Healer stood up
straight and looked towards the sealed window, the drawn curtains blocking the faint
light from outside.
“Your brother did not die within days. He must be a carrier, not a victim. Most of
your diseases… they make longer the life of the vector. To infect more. You have done…
done good in isolating him. You have slowed the spread.
“It is usual for a vector to show symptoms. I have only seen this once before, where
the host was bed-ridden.”
“How did it turn out?” Anouma asked.
“Badly.”
“So what, then?” Adjobi asked. “I’m not the vector? There was someone else before
me?”
The Healer nodded, removed a black pouch from his belt. The two doctors became
noticeably tense. He paused, hand over it, not opening it up.
“I will require a blood sample to verify… but in my experience, you do not look like
a first-degree vector.”
Anouma’s face betrayed a smile.
79
“Then you will leave him alone? You are only interested in the vector, yes?”
The Healer stared at the black pouch for a moment.
“I have given you my word,” he said quietly. “But my directives are to eliminate
hosts. I should euthanize him now.”
“But… but you won’t…” Anouma said, uncertain.
The Healer only looked at her.
“No, he won’t,” Adjobi said weakly. “And he won’t draw any blood either—”
“That is not what I said—” the Healer said.
“Because if he does, I won’t tell him who infected me.”
Both Anouma and the Healer looked at Adjobi, Anouma’s mouth hanging open
slightly. She took his hand in hers, squeezed it gently.
“Adjobi, what are you…”
“There was a man. An American. His name was Lewis. I never learned his last
name. He was a junkie, a sickly old thing. I was working the pit alone when his
girlfriend — a prostitute I think — came and begged me to check on him. He’d passed
out, possibly from an overdose. She couldn’t wake him, couldn’t move him, but she’d
brought her car, so she drove me to his house.
“When I got there, he was barely alive. I performed CPR and flushed his system
with the tools I had, and he seemed to be recovering well enough. But when he came
to, he was delirious, probably spooked by my hospital uniform. He… he stabbed me.
With a needle.”
Anouma covered her mouth in shock, sunk lower onto the bed.
“It didn’t hurt. I didn’t think much of it at the time. I flushed the wound, took the
standard stopper dose of Pathenex, and moved on.”
“You think he was your vector,” the Healer said.
“It would make sense. I got sick a few weeks after that. What else could it be?”
The Healer looked at the black pouch for a moment.
“Where does ‘Lewis’ live?”
“Michalská, house number 21, I think. It had a green door. That much I
remember.”
80
The Healer took hold of the pouch, put it back into his belt, did not look at either
Anouma or Adjobi. He turned away, heading to the door, dust swirling in his wake.
“Will you come back?” Anouma asked him. He stopped, looked at her, framed by
banks of monitors and equipment flowing wires onto the floor.
“Pray I do not,” he said, and left.
* * *
“That was… dangerous, Fanta,” said Adjobi, when they were sure the Healer had
gone. Anouma backed away from the door, returning to his side. Her eyes glistened
with fear.
“I am sorry, Adjobi. I thought the lesions matched yours… I thought he might help
you.”
“You know Healers don’t help anyone but their own. He might have killed me.”
Fanta lowered her head, contained her crying. Adjobi patted her hand with his,
weak, faltering.
“But it will be fine,” he said softly. “If he finds my vector, we might have hope. They
have some of the best minds in the world working there. If anyone can crack it, they
can. It’s a long shot, but we can’t lose hope.”
She smiled at him, but it was clear she didn’t share his optimism anymore.
“How do you feel today?” she asked.
“A bit better. I haven’t got much left to vomit, and the sedatives help with the rest.
No new lesions this week, either. It’s as close to ‘progress’ as I can manage, I think.”
“That is good. That is very good. Dr Bastien will be happy to hear it. He does not
get much happy news these days.”
“Oh?” asked Adjobi, straining to sit up a bit in bed.
“The Director of Public Safety is causing problems again,” Anouma explained. “He
has summoned Dr Bastien five times this week already, always without notice. I have
heard he is trying to implement a new policy to screen all aid workers.”
“We’re subject to that already…”
“Not like this. He is looking for anyone whose vaccines are not up to date, to have
them deported. A doctor in Ostrava contracted measles and passed it on to his patients,
81
and it has everyone scared. He wants to force every doctor in Prague to be fully
protected. From everything.”
“So are they going to provide us with the vaccines they withheld before, then?”
Adjobi said, his voice weak but increasingly angry.
“They say they still do not have the resources.”
“So they’d give up some of their best minds to satisfy some knee-jerk reaction…”
“Bastien is fighting it. He says they have no right to meddle with MSF affairs.”
“I doubt that,” Adjobi sighed. “But they’re still fools for trying. You have to refuse,
Fanta. I can’t be stuck in this hell hole alone. You have to stay hidden. At least until
Bastien gets word from Geneva...”
“I do not think we will hear from them soon,” Anouma said gravely. “He said not
to expect anything for many days, at least. The mail servers have been shutting down
often, too. No one knows what got out and what got lost.”
“You’ve got to be careful, then. You should be switching masks every few hours.
Carry extra gloves. Don’t take any chances, Fanta. All they need is for you to show signs
of a fever, and you’ll be caught.”
She lowered her eyes.
“Adjobi… why did you not tell me about your accident? It changes so much…”
Adjobi sighed, put a hand to his forehead, and the cables tugged gently at the
movement.
“Bastien would have left me for dead for disobeying his orders. He’d be mad as hell
if he knew I’d been galavanting around the city, Stall Kit in hand. No, it was too risky.
Better he think I got it from someone here than someone out there.”
Anouma nodded, quiet.
“He is wracked with guilt, though,” she said. “He thinks it is his fault.”
“Don’t read too much into Bastien’s guilt. He’s been wearing it round his shoulders
since before we got here. I’m not worried about adding to his sorrows. I’m scared to
death of disappointing him.”
Anouma smiled at this, patted his hand. Adjobi winced at pain somewhere in his
frail body, half-rolled to his side. His heart monitor beeped faster and faster, and then
slowed to a normal crawl.
82
“I will get more morphine,” she said, moving off the bed, but he caught her arm,
held her back.
“It’s okay,” he swallowed. “I’m fine. Don’t waste it on me. With any luck, that
monster you found will have a cure for me, and all of this will be a faint memory.”
“I would rather never see him again,” Anouma confided.
“Neither would I,” said Adjobi quietly. “but somehow I think we will.”
83
15
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The corpse tipped into a black body bag, joining errant rainwater that was skirting
off the roof into the alley. The workers, heavy masks strapped tight to their faces,
tossed it around callously, their shoulder-long black gloves squeaking from the effort.
Two of them stood impatiently above the other victim, blood long since drained.
Sobotka took one last look, stood up, and they moved in for disposal, this time with
yellow plastic. A sticker was glued to the head and toe, detailing the type and strength
of the virus found in the body.
The body bags were lazily added to a pile of other corpses, all colour-coded, waisthigh and exposed to the elements. Further down, the pile of yellow bags was being
loaded into a flatbed truck. It would take several trips to clear that stack, as tall as it
was.
Sobotka walked down towards the mouth of the alley and joined Crew, who was
interviewing a bruised old woman in bloodied clothes. Her eyes darted between them,
but never at them, like she was talking to ghosts and not people.
“A brown cloak?” Crew asked, tapping his pen on his notepad. “Anything else?”
The old woman nodded furiously.
“Yes! Yes, a dark face! Like a fly! He had no eyes! No eyes and no soul!”
Crew smiled a bit, jotted notes. Sobotka checked his scribblings, put a hand to the
woman’s shoulder.
“Did he hurt you, ma’am?”
“No. No no no, not me. Only Franz and whashisname. The one with the kids.
They’re upstairs, you know. He talks about them all the time.”
84
“I’m sure. So this dark-faced man… did he say anything to you?”
“No, no words, not to me. Though I heard a woman’s voice. She spoke something…
I can’t say what. It was foreign.”
“Have you heard it before?” Sobotka asked, checking back at the crime scene.
“Yes. Yes, I have. I’m sure I have.”
Crew stood a bit straighter, frowned at the woman.
“Where?”
“In my nightmares. It was the devil. The devil! I’m sure of it!”
Sobotka rubbed the woman’s grimy shoulder, and kindly lead her back to her
campsite off the side of the hospital.
“That’s good, ma’am. Thank you. You’ve been a big help.”
Crew was kicking over a bottle of antiseptic into the bloodstains when she got to
him. She looked at the large metal doors against the concrete facade, the piles of trash
everywhere.
“What do you think?” she asked, not making eye contact.
“Same thing you do. It’s gotta be.”
Sobotka’s phone buzzed quietly, and she flipped it out, put it to her ear, taking a
step back out of the rain.
“Sobotka,” she grunted. “Yes sir. I think it is, sir, yes. A Healer. It matches the
description perfectly. No face, the cloak, the bloodbath.”
Crew’s jaw set tightly.
“Yes sir,” Sobotka nodded. “We understand. Completely, yes. Not a problem. We’re
on it.”
“So the Cap’ agrees?” Crew asked as she shut the phone, “We’re good to go?”
“It wasn’t the Captain, it was Director Sestak. And we’re not good to go, he’s telling
us to leave it alone.”
“Alone? We’ve got two dead bodies here, and who knows how many more coming!
We can’t just ignore it!”
“Are you kidding me? It was an order, Crew! And he’s right. Healers are
untouchable. If anyone found out we were even looking at investigating a Healer, the
85
bunch of us would be called up on charges by sundown. The rules come from too high
up. Higher than us, higher than Sestak—”
“What, God himself?” Crew smirked. “Look at you. All for defending the peasants,
until the peasants meet some Chinese butcher, and then you’re fine with it?”
“Of course I’m not fine with it!” shouted Sobotka, and the nearby crowds turned to
stare. She lowered her voice, growling. “But this is a fight you can’t win, Crew. Without
the law on our side, at best we’re on even footing with a Healer. At best. And everything
I’ve heard says he’s got almost supernatural powers. You really want to go up against
that?”
Crew grinned.
“I do. I really do.”
“Look, I hate being pulled in a thousand directions as much as you do, but that’s
what we get for not retiring with everyone else. We have to cover extra ground…
ground we don’t want to cover. But what we don’t do is go looking for trouble where
there isn’t any!”
“This is trouble!”
“You know that’s not true!”
“You heard that woman! The Healer was talking to someone… some woman. Here
in the hospital. That means he’s got an accomplice. The President himself might be
watching the Healer’s back, but there’s nothing that says we have to let a Czech citizen
call him in! To me, that’s betraying your own. That’s treason.”
“You’re insane. We’ll never find a woman in a hospital of thousands, and we’ll
damn sure never be able to arrest her for talking to someone who is technically doing
nothing wrong.”
“You have no faith in the power of the badge, Sobotka.”
She growled, turned away, staring into the rain. The flatbed truck’s gates clanged
shut, its cargo full.
“Know what I’m thinking?” Crew called to her. “This isn’t a coincidence. This joker
shows up in the last days of November, right after we get that note.”
“You can’t be serious.”
86
“What? It’s beyond them? After this? After Russia? After what they did in their own
backyard?”
“It’s the wrong MO. It doesn’t fit, and you know it. We can’t waste time on
something like this when there is a real threat out there that needs our attention.”
“Listen. He’s already put two more in the pile. I’m not letting him add any more.”
Crew motioned to the pile of yellow body bags. The truck chugged to life and started
away, off to the incinerator. There were still hundreds of yellow body bags stacked in
the road. Sobotka shook her head, slumping her shoulders.
“You’re a fool.”
Crew shrugged.
“You with me, or do I do this alone?”
Sobotka shook her head, annoyed.
“We’ve got enough on our plates with the girl. That’s our job. That’s what we’re
paid to do. Sestak is waiting for results there. And it’s a real public safety issue, Crew.
This? This is just glory-hunting.”
“So I do it alone, then.”
“Damn right,” she said, burying her fists in her jacket pockets. A cold wind blew
across the alley, whipped her hair in her face. She clenched her teeth to keep the shivers
at bay. Crew stared at the ground, kicked at the dirt.
“You can’t take the car if it’s not official business,” Sobotka grumbled. “You’re on
foot. You’re going to be out in the snow, looking for a ghost. You sure you want that?”
“It’s not going to snow,” he said, pacing away from her, arms folded and chin out.
“It’s only November. It’ll slush a bit. I’ll survive.”
Sobotka watched him go, shaking her head to herself.
“I’m not so sure,” she said.
87
16
VIA RAINUSSO 108, MODENA, ITALY
APRIL 22, ONE YEAR EARLIER
The lead snapped off the pencil mid-stroke, ripping a hole in the page. Eva brushed
the fragments away, smudging the lines all around. It looked like a hole in the sky, a
tear in space. She checked the actual sky outside her window, pale blue with a few
clouds drifting. Very different worlds.
Her hands were shaking, but she tried to ignore it. Her legs were like sticks these
days, so thin. The roundness she’d been teased for in university had all melted away,
leaving a lean, almost sick-looking girl, wrapped in a light jacket and jeans.
She had just laid down the first lines on a new page when the door to the hotel
room opened and Rhodri entered, hands behind his back. His smile was contagious.
She shut the sketchbook and hopped off the wicker chair, meeting him before he could
kick his shoes off.
“Guess what I found?” he asked with a sly grin, turning this way and that, keeping
her from seeing behind him.
“Magic beans,” Eva teased, reaching around, meeting empty air as he dodged her.
“Magic beans won’t fill our bellies. Try again.”
Eva bit her lip, her stomach rumbling angrily. There was food in the room. This
was no time for games.
“If it’s stale bread again, you’re making way too much of a fuss about it.”
“It’s not stale, and it’s not bread. It’s…” he held out a pair of red, shiny apples. “A
treat!”
Eva could barely contain herself. She leapt at him, giving him a hug that made his
back crack. He blew her bobbed hair off his face and laughed.
88
“If you make me drop them, you’re homeless, got it?”
“How did you find them?” Eva gasped, pulling back, taking an apple in her hands.
“Last time I was down in the market, they were like ten euros each!”
“Eleven, actually. Inflation. Got the two for twenty, though.”
Eva’s face dropped slightly. She took a step back.
“Twenty? How did… how did you get that much money? I thought we were saving
that for emergencies. Things are tight, Rhodri, and I don’t know how much we can—”
“It’s not our emergency fund. That’s the second bit of news.”
Eva crossed her arms.
“Do tell.”
Rhodri took a large bite out of his apple, chewed noisily, a smile betraying how
much he was enjoying it. After a few chomps, he explained, words slurring from the
juice.
“I got a job.”
Eva leapt at him again, knocking him back a bit, wrapped her arms around him
and kissed him hard on the mouth. Sweetness from the apple juice. He started
laughing, kissed her back.
“So you’re happy for me, then?”
“How did you do it? There’s a company in town? Where? I thought we’d checked
everywhere, and—”
“You want to keep asking, or you want me to tell you?” he teased.
She unwrapped herself from him, threw herself on the bed, legs crossed, and
started eating her own apple. It was magnificently sweet, made her warm in the brisk
spring air. Rhodri kept standing, foot tapping madly on the ground. He was full of
excited energy, and it was infectious to watch.
“It’s not the kind of work you’re thinking. It’s for a restaurant.”
“You’re cleaning dishes?”
“No, not dishes. The owner wants to shut down his dining area for good. He lost a
pair of waiters last month, and he’s sick of it. So he put up this ad, says he needs
couriers to deliver food to customers around this and a few other towns.”
“Nice racket. All the money, none of the risk.”
89
“Can’t blame him. But yeah, I saw he was running it purely by phone-in, and I saw
an opening. How many people have proper, working mobile coverage these days?
Right? Not many. But how many people can still squeak out a data connection to their
laptops?”
“Clever,” Eva said, her face bright with admiration. She started fidgeting as the
apple was bitten down to the core.
“I talked him into letting me build him a website, complete with online ordering.
Nothing too fancy, but it saves him having to hire a full-time receptionist.”
“Pretty smart there, science boy!”
Rhodri finished his apple, tossed the core from a distance into the garbage can. His
eye were twinkling.
“Eight hundred euros, and I’ve got two weeks to work.”
“Eight hundred! Just think of all the—”
“Hold on, Eva,” he said, sitting next to her, taking her hands in his. “It’s a lot right
now, but I don’t want to go through another year of starving like we have. I don’t want
an apple to be the highlight of my month. Hell, my year. We’ve got to be careful with
this money.”
Eva nodded, avoiding his stare. She shrugged.
“I should probably get a job too, then. Help out more.”
“You could be a courier for the restaurant! Just think! Running around town,
delivering cold food to angry customers! Who needs a car when you’ve got spunk!”
She shoved him playfully.
“You’re such a bastard,” she grumbled. “Actually, I was thinking I could find some
paint and see about selling some more work downtown. I sold one this morning,
straight out of my sketchbook, totally by chance. This middle-aged guy from out of
town, just wouldn’t take no for an answer.”
“Congrats! Which one?”
“The one of Maselle by the river,” Eva beamed.
“Ah, yeah, I could see that one being popular. She had that seductive look about
her.”
Eva frowned at him.
90
“What seductive look?”
“Oh come on, you drew it. It was her whole ‘come hither’ thing.”
Eva pushed him over by his face, crossed her arms in mock anger. He laughed.
“All I’m saying is that when you’re living in a world like this, sometimes you want
a little bit of the world the way it was,” he said. “These days, how many times are you
going to be able to hook up with a sultry college girl with a body like that?”
“Digging yourself deeper,” Eva warned.
“I think hope sells, is what I mean.”
“Or sex,” said Eva.
“The hope of sex, then. Either way, it’s a powerful thing. You should embrace it.
Sell more work, spread a little joy, even if it is by proxy. Give the people what they
want.”
Eva leaned over him, her nose touching his. Her hair made a bridge between them.
His breath was sweet and warm, his eyes dancing across her face.
“People should give me what I want first,” she breathed.
“What do you want?” he asked, softly.
“You know damn well,” she said, and they kissed, long and slow, in front of the
open window, the pale blue sky filled with the sounds of passing ambulances.
91
17
PRAHA 5 POLICE STATION, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
“Eva! Eva, wake up!”
Her vision was blurry, and she coughed violently as if she’d nearly drowned.
Blinking, she forced her eyes to focus, could barely make out the shape of a face above
her, the green glow from the computer lighting his haggard appearance. She gasped,
squeezed her eyes shut, tried to shake herself back awake.
“Pyotr…?” she wheezed, voice weak.
Pyotr smiled nervously, nodded, brushed her cheek with rough hands. His hair was
cut short, patchy, like he’d done it himself. His eyes were ringed with creases, dark
circles, tiny scars and the wear and tear of a living hell. They were still brilliantly blue,
but the rest of him made the colour feel tired, not vibrant anymore. He wasn’t the wiry
kid she’d known at school. He was lean and muscular, tougher.
“I’m sorry, Eva,” he whispered. “I didn’t know it was you. Are you okay? Can you
breathe?”
“You… you choked me…”
“I’m so sorry, I didn’t know. You look a lot different. I thought you were one of
them. You might’ve found me.”
“Where are we?”
“The police station,” he said, checking over his shoulder nervously. “We’ve got to
get moving. Can you walk?”
Eva got to her knees, her legs wobbling beneath her. She put a hand on the wall,
and yelped at a pain in her wrist. She held it close, tight, felt it was swelling slightly.
92
“You hit it when you were fighting me,” Pyotr said, voice wavering with remorse.
“Can you bear it for now?”
Eva nodded, cradled the arm and got to her feet. Pyotr stood next to her, supported
her with a well-toned arm, craning his neck to see out into the hallway.
“It’s good timing, you stopping by,” he said softly. “Guess I’ll have some company
for Christmas after all.”
Mention of the holidays dragged Eva back to reality, and she backed up suddenly,
face blanching.
“Oh my god, Pyotr!” she gasped. “we have to get out of here! There’s a virus… an
outbreak hitting here December first!”
“Shh! Eva, quiet or they’ll hear us!”
Eva lowered her voice, but her eyes were wide with fear.
“We can’t stay here. We need to get out before it starts. Please, you have to help
me!”
“I will, but—”
“— we have to find my mother and escape before—”
Pyotr put a hand over her mouth, kept her quiet while he checked down the hall.
“I will. I promise. But for right now: shut up and move fast, or we’ll be rotting in
jail when the city explodes. Got it? Now move!”
* * *
The windows were broken, shards strewn all over the weather-worn carpet. It
smelled of smoke in the third floor bedroom, though it was uniquely untouched by the
fire that had gutted the rest of the building. The floor creaked when Eva stepped on it,
so she walked gingerly, followed Pyotr precisely.
“We don’t have time, Pyotr,” she called. “We need to start looking for my mother
and finding food to travel and—”
“First things first,” he interrupted, reaching a solid portion of the room and
kneeling down on a mattress, pressed up against the wall. “We need to check your arm
and get you fixed up. The way things are out there, you wouldn’t last long like that.”
93
Eva didn’t respond, so he grabbed her arm and rolled up her sleeve. She bit back a
yelp at the pain. Her wrist was purpling and noticeably swollen. He sighed.
“Looks nasty. Sorry about that.”
She shrugged, then cried out loudly as he tried bending her hand up and down. He
let her go, started rummaging through his pockets, pulling out food packets, half a
dozen marbles, a pair of pliers, and a bundle of beige elastic wrap.
“You come prepared,” Eva smiled.
“This isn’t what I usually use it for. But I think it’ll do…”
He reached out to the nearby window ledge and grabbed a handful of snow, and
carefully put it on her arm. She was already so cold it barely registered, but as it melted
it made her skin tingle, like tiny fiery pinpricks.
Eva looked up at him as he applied the second round of snow, shook her head.
“You look so different, Pyotr. Your hair is… it used to be beautiful.”
He shrugged, cocked his head.
“Don’t rub it in. It was getting too hard to manage without a bath. Took me days to
get up the nerve to do it all in. With the edge of a tin can, no less.”
“It shows,” Eva smiled. “The beard is new, too. You were always the clean one. It’s
just kind of strange to see you like this.”
“You look awfully new yourself,” he said. “But long hair suits you, I think.”
“Thanks,” she said. “I think it’s awful.”
“Goes with the wrist.”
“Yeah,” she said, and caught some of the water dripping off her arm with the palm
of her hand.
Pyotr put another handful of snow on her, wiped his hands on his jacket, and
picked up the food packet he’d removed earlier.
“You keep that up until the ledge is clear, and I’ll get us some dinner. A quick
dinner. Yes?”
Eva nodded hesitantly. Pyotr tried to rip open the package, but it wouldn’t give.
“Stupid things never open right…” he grumbled.
“It’s so good to see you,” Eva said softly. “It’s good to know someone here.”
“Someone alive from the old days.”
94
“Yeah,” was all she said.
Pyotr did a mock roar and pulled furiously at the package, but it still wouldn’t
budge. He stomped an angry foot on the ground and leaned into it with all his strength,
the wrapper foiling his every move. Eva laughed, shook her head, and watched him a
moment.
“You know, I used to have the biggest crush on you in first year,” she said.
This caught Pyotr off guard, and just at that moment, the package burst open and
half the ration skidded across the floor, right to Eva’s feet. Pyotr stood there, stunned.
Then upset, then shocked. He looked at the other half in his hand, sighed.
“That was sudden,” he said, then handed her the safe half of the ration. “Here you
go. Eat.”
Eva took the food with her good hand, and gave a weak smile, which dissolved as
Pyotr snatched the other part from the ground, dusted the dirt off its bottom. Eva
reached out to him.
“Don’t.” she said seriously. “It’s not worth the risk.”
His blue eyes caught hers, he shrugged slightly.
“I’ll live,” he replied, but she grabbed his arm with her swollen hand, wincing.
“Don’t be stupid. You can’t know that. You can’t risk that.”
Their eyes stayed locked, and Pyotr dropped the food on the ground and flicked it
away, under a chest of drawers. Eva handed him her own ration, and he snapped it in
half for her, giving her a part back.
“Be careful with it this time,” she warned.
He smiled at her. She bit into the wafer, winced at the taste, how it sucked the
moisture out of her mouth.
“Yum,” she sighed. “Stale strawberries.”
Pyotr laughed a big booming laugh.
“Stale strawberries would be a step up. This is old cardboard sprinkled with
strawberry extract. I’d throw up, if I had anything in my stomach.”
Eva smiled, then almost gagged on her second mouthful.
95
“What are you doing here anyway?” Pyotr asked, swallowing the rest of his share.
“Last I heard, you were going to stick it out in Paris. Where’s Rhodri? You two are still
together, right?”
Eva clenched a fist round the wafer, but it refused to crumble.
“No,” she said, not looking up. “Not right now, no.”
“But you will be again? There’s hope for you two, right?”
She said nothing, closed her eyes.
“Maselle and I took some time off, after I left school,” he said, trying to fill the gap.
“Thought we were done, but you know, after a few months, it worked out okay.”
Eva smiled, flicked a glance up at Pyotr, whose face had changed from hopeful to
distant somehow. He was staring at the ceiling. Then he jerked out of it, took the elastic
wrap and started bundling up her arm in slow, careful movements. She did her best
not to show how much it hurt.
“You two were great together,” Eva said. “I don’t think I ever saw you apart, the
whole time I was in Paris. Rhodri and I used to joke that we’d have to be surgically
joined at the hip to even come close to your level of commitment.”
“Heh,” said Pyotr absent-mindedly. “Probably right.”
“How is Maselle?” Eva asked, and Pyotr shifted his stare to the window.
“She died a few months ago,” he said, with a dead expression. “Nuremberg
syndrome. Out of nowhere.”
Eva blinked, looked down at the wafer in her hands. At Pyotr’s hands. At his sad
expression.
“Pyotr… Nuremberg is… that’s highly contagious… and airborne…”
He didn’t face her, just stared at his hands.
“Yeah,” he said. “they warned me about that when they put me in quarantine.”
96
18
NA CELNÉ 1391/11, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Eva gasped, moved away from Pyotr urgently. She had no mask, no protection…
she covered her mouth with the sleeve of her sweater, taking shallow breaths. Slow,
shallow breaths. The elastic started unravelling onto the floor.
Pyotr didn’t even notice her.
“I spent six weeks in quarantine,” he said. “Couldn’t see another living person for
six weeks. They shoved food in under the door, and all I had to do was knock twice a
day to tell them I was still alive. Lived in my own shit. They torch each cell after you
die, so why bother cleaning?
“After five weeks, I’m sure I’m near death. I’m losing my mind, I’ve lost so much
weight. I’m on the verge of a massive breakdown. This doctor in a full biohazard suit
comes in, takes some blood, and tells me… he tells me Maselle died a week earlier. I
can’t see her. I can’t see her at all. She’s already being carted off to be incinerated, and
all I get from her is the ring I got her when we… we got engaged.”
Eva didn’t move her arm, but tears were in her eyes, and she blinked them back.
“A week later the doctor comes back, tells me they’ve re-run my blood, and I’m
clear for Nuremberg. It was a lab error the first time. I was fine. I could have… I could
have been with her at the end, but they made a mistake. So she died alone, starving,
drowning in her own shit. It’s just wrong, Eva. It’s so wrong.”
Eva carefully, gently, lowered her sleeve from her face, reached out towards Pyotr.
He was still staring out the window, watching something that wasn’t there. They sat in
silence, the snow making no sound as it drifted onto the window ledge.
Eva offered the last of the wafer to Pyotr.
97
“Are… are you hungry?” she asked quietly.
Pyotr looked at the wafer, his eyes narrow, then carefully plucked it from her hand,
perched it in his fingers, but didn’t move to eat it.
“What were you doing at the police station? Was it business or pleasure?”
She laughed at this.
“Very much business,” she said, leaning back on the mattress, the dampness
making her shiver. “They think I’m some master virus-maker.”
“You?” he laughed. “Our little Eva? You’re joking, right?”
“Wish you’d tell them that,” she said, shaking her head. “they don’t believe me.”
Pyotr patted her knee, held his hand there a bit longer than necessary.
“They don’t believe anyone,” he said.
“I’ve noticed. But listen… we need to get moving… I have no idea where my mother
is, and there isn’t much time before the virus hits, whatever it is.”
“You really trust cops? About this virus theory of theirs?”
Eva’s eyes darted to the ground.
“I do. I wish I didn’t, but I do.”
He nodded, started on her wrist again, wrapping faster this time. She gritted her
teeth.
“Sit tight. I’m not a doctor or anything, but I’ll make you useful again.”
Eva looked outside, the snow falling, then back to Pyotr.
“Thanks for this. I’d be lost here without a friend.”
A gust of wind outside blew drops of water into the room. Pyotr wiped it off his
face.
“Don’t worry about it. Thank you for warning me about the impending doom and
all.”
Eva laughed.
“Sorry about the accommodations, by the way,” he said, frowning. “You
interrupted my apartment hunting. The police keep the best list of vacant buildings in
town, so I like to plan a little raid every so often to find some new digs.”
“Why do you live like this anyway?” she asked.
98
“My folks died two years ago. Battinger’s D. I wasn’t there, but y’know… when the
bank account stops getting filled, you kinda figure.”
“God, I’m so sorry, Pyotr.”
“It’s okay,” he said, but his expression said otherwise. “Part of the package, right?
Anyway… I made it this far home, ran out of money just east of Prague and had to turn
back. Been living the life of adventure ever since.”
“For how long?”
“Almost a year and a half, I guess. Can’t afford a watch battery,” he said, smiling
again, showing her his stopped watch. Eva frowned at it, then pulled the wad of papers
and cards out of her pocket, fished through them until she found a hundred-euro note.
She handed it over to him.
“Here you go,” she said. “Get yourself hooked up. It’s on me.”
He took the money, waved it a bit, smirking.
“Now all I’ve got to do is find someplace that sells batteries, that’s still open for
business. And accepts cash. Yay!”
“So it’s really that bad here? They were still taking paper money in Stuttgart when
I left a few days ago. What’re you supposed to do then? How does anyone survive?”
“They don’t, mostly,” said Pyotr seriously. “But when you need food, there’s a
government stockroom across the Charles that’s open most days. A lot of the packages
are ripped open or otherwise trashed, but it’s better than nothing. But for the rest…
yeah, it’s not too good in Prague. Pockets of civilization next door to splashes of
apocalypse. It’s surreal sometimes. The only fully-functioning facility left in town is
the Motol, and even that’s not what it used to be.”
“You got sick?”
“Broke my arm. They set it in the parking lot and sent me home without pain meds,
just in case. No x-rays, no follow-up. Too dangerous to go inside. Kind of like how I’m
treating you, but I think they had medical degrees.”
“Jesus, that’s brutal,” Eva whispered, glanced outside and noticed the snow was
falling harder now. Pyotr put the final touches on the bandage and turned her arm
around back and forth.
“How’s it feel?” he asked.
99
“Like utter crap, but well contained.”
“That’s what I’m going for!” he smiled, then his expression changed. Worry. “Eva,
is this your passport?”
“Yeah, why?”
Pyotr got to his feet with a start, looked around himself, then ran to the window,
crunching glass as he went, leaned out. Eva stood up too, the room colder without the
blanket, and watched as Pyotr threw the passport into the empty fireplace, kicked
ashes onto it.
“What’s going on?” Eva asked as Pyotr started picking up his things, shoving stuff
into his pockets.
“You’re 17-5, right?” he asked, and she flinched.
“Yes. I mean, they keep saying—”
“It means tag and trace,” he said seriously, looking out the door to the landing. It
had taken some work to make it up the fire-ravaged steps on the way here. Rushing
down was not an option. “They put a chip in your passport so they can find you if they
lose you.”
Eva looked back at the fireplace, at the ashes kicked around, then back at Pyotr,
who suddenly shifted back into the room. A flashlight beam shining up from the floors
below.
“Ms Kolikov!” came a voice, calm and determined. “we’re not done our chat yet!”
“Sobotka,” growled Pyotr, backing up till window glass broke under his feet. He
turned round, looked out the window. Eva was by his side in an instant, saw the fire
escape, checked his expression.
“We’ve got to get out of here,” she said, swinging one leg over the window ledge
and planting a foot on the rusted metal outside. She grabbed hold of the railing with
her good hand and pulled herself out. The metal was slippery from the snow, and
before she could stop it, she slipped sideways, landed on the window sill on her right
shoulder, the fragments of glass cutting into her skin, and she called out in pain.
Pyotr put his hand over her mouth before she could do much damage, a panicked
look in his eyes. He climbed out, too, helped Eva to her feet, and without a word,
nudged her down the stairs.
100
After one storey, Eva got her footing, and picked up speed. She skidded round the
last bend, grabbed hold of the railing, but with her bandaged hand, and the pain was
so terrible she shrieked and let go. She slipped onto her back and fell off the edge of
the gate, only catching hold of the metal at the last second, holding on so tight it felt
like her fingertips had fused into her palm.
Pyotr was on his chest, wrapping his strong hands around her forearm, his teeth
gritting audibly.
“Hold on,” he whispered through the strain, trying to pull her back up, the sidewalk
cold and icy below them.
“Ms Kolikov and friend!” shouted Sobotka from the window above. “Bonus for
me!”
Eva heard the sound of heavy feet on metal. Pyotr wasn’t making any progress
getting her back up… their eyes met quickly, urgently, and for a second neither said a
thing. Then Pyotr knew what she was going to do, and he shook his head as much as
he could manage.
“You can’t,” he grunted.
“I can’t go back,” she said, and pulled herself free.
101
19
NA CELNÉ 1391/11, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
Eva’s heel hit the ground, and for a moment she thought she had dropped two
storeys unscathed.
But then her weight shifted, her foot slipped on slick ice, and before she could react,
her head hit the pavement. Pain shot pink and bright blue streaks across her vision;
she blinked rapidly to regain her sight. She gasped at the pain, closed her eyes again
and held them shut so tight it felt like her brains might collapse from the pressure.
When she opened them again, she was floating, her arm wrapped over Pyotr’s
shoulders, her feet grazing the ground like they were pretending to walk.
Shock set in, and she gripped into Pyotr’s neck and gasped. He pulled her against
a cold wall in the darkness, pushed her back and looked at her with a panicked face.
“Don’t make a sound,” he whispered so quietly she almost didn’t hear. She tried to
calm herself, but her head was swimming and something about it didn’t seem real to
her, and she shuddered, her head aching so intensely she had trouble seeing past it.
To her right, a street. She was in an alley she didn’t recognize, off a wide street
without tire marks on it. Snow was melting from the buildings above, dripping down
next to her, on her, and the tap, tap, tap of drops hitting puddles was mesmerizing. She
almost didn’t hear the footsteps in the street, cautious and careful.
Pyotr put a hand down onto her stomach, pushed her back, and she fought against
her delirium, kept herself still.
She saw the figure through the pain: Sobotka, silhouetted by streetlights, standing
at the edge of the alley, peering in. She checked over her shoulder, then back towards
102
them. Eva didn’t even breathe, heard her heartbeat in her ears, the sound of her head
rubbing against brick.
Sobotka pointed a light into the alley… too far left, too far right, then she settled on
a spot just ahead of them, so close the beam was blinding…
Water tapped, and Eva could hear Pyotr’s slow breathing beside her, and his hand
was pressing so strong into her stomach it hurt. The light wavered slightly, darted
quickly toward them, and then swung back, away, and Sobotka was gone.
Neither of them moved for a minute or more, and Eva put her hand on Pyotr’s,
took hold and tried to move it so she could breathe again. The pain came flooding back
to her head in the absence of fear, and she nearly collapsed. She looked to Pyotr, who
was still watching the street nervously. He reluctantly pulled his gaze away, saw her,
smiled.
“Are you okay?” he asked.
Eva nodded, willing a calm facade.
“Thank you,” she said quietly. “you saved me.”
They moved deeper into the alley, took a turn to the right, then a few turns more
that Eva only noticed in the corners of her mind; the pain kept coming in waves up her
neck and into her eyes.
They paused in a small deserted courtyard, a bench bolted to giant slabs of
concrete. Empty, broken, wooden crates strewn everywhere. Eva smiled weakly at it,
the refuge, and then promptly fell to her knees and vomited all over the slushy snow.
Pyotr ran to her side, rubbing her back and carefully leading her to the bench,
helping her down. She felt another wave coming on, but swallowed, tried to see past
the pain in her head.
“Concussion…” she wheezed, spitting bile into the snow.
Pyotr ran a hand across her cheek, looked nervous.
“You’re pale,” he said, uncertain, probing for answers beyond his reach. She
squeezed her eyes shut and tried holding her breath.
“It’s going… to get… worse…” she gasped, and he gripped her hands tighter.
103
“Wait a second,” he said, rattling urgent fingers through his pockets. Eva doubled
over and tried not to vomit again. She was counting to ten for the third time when he
found them: two large, blue pills, dusted with lint.
“Take these,” he said gently.
She squinted, looked up at him, her vision laced with light and pain.
“W-w-what are they?”
He put the pills in her hand, and she squeezed them tight as another shot of nausea
stunned her.
“It’s called Tezocet, I think. Painkillers. Um, anti-inflammatory something.”
She nodded slightly, the motion causing unbearable pain. With a quick motion, she
shoved the pills into her mouth, swallowed, then pushed the heels of her hands into
her eyes, trying to focus past the agony so she wouldn’t throw up again.
Pyotr was rubbing her back, gentle circles counter-clockwise, over and over… she
felt the pain slide back, and she turned her head to him, opened her eyes, groggy.
“Working,” she said quietly.
He nodded, smiled.
“Where did you get those pills?” Eva asked, her vision not clearing but the pain
almost a shadow of what it was.
Pyotr looked down at the snow, guilty.
“Maselle,” he said simply.
Somehow the cold was less frightening than it had been before, and Eva almost
thought the sound of the wind on the rooftops above sounded muffled. Somehow off.
She took a deep breath and her vision rippled with light.
“Painkillers working,” she slurred. “and strong…”
She fell into his arms, and he held her tight.
“Listen, Eva,” he said softly. “I know you and Rhodri had your differences, but…”
Eva’s vision was so blurry suddenly she couldn’t see her own legs beneath her, and
the fuzzy shapes around her were shifting and turning, and she felt so dizzy and sleepy
it was hard to listen ...
“Sometimes you don’t appreciate what you had till it’s too late,” she heard Pyotr
say, but she didn’t really know what it meant anymore.
104
“I need to find my mama,” she sighed, and he caught her head as it fell backwards.
“Eva? Eva, can you hear me?”
Eva felt her eyes roll back in her head, and fell as if she were sinking into a snowy
field, with Pyotr somewhere out in the sky, calling her back to him.
105
20
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
The cough was ragged, so grating it was surprising no blood came out with the
mucus. Anouma held the plastic bowl close to his mouth and leaned him forward so it
was all out. He gasped for air and fell back, lying on the sweaty mattress he called his
home. His arms moved helplessly at his sides, waving back and forth as if he were
drowning.
The pit nurse checked her clipboard, glanced at the man’s tag number.
“So he had no ID on him?” she asked, checking through papers quickly.
“None,” said Anouma softly. “He was dumped outside in a hospital gown.”
“Cast-offs from Františku Hospital again?”
“It could be. I have heard they are closing soon.”
The nurse sighed, flipped a few more pages, looked at the patient.
“So what’s his diagnosis? We need to find a place to move him. He’s end-stage, isn’t
he?”
Anouma urgently motioned for the nurse to follow her away from the bed, down a
short distance to a spot where most of the patients were still asleep.
“Be careful what you say,” she whispered angrily. “He can hear you.”
“But he—”
“He is fully conscious. He knows what is happening to him, but he cannot control
his body enough to tell us. His motor control is gone, his lungs are failing, and he is
living with endless pain we cannot treat. Do not add to his misery.”
The nurse looked sufficiently chastised, met Anouma’s eyes.
106
“Fine. I’m sorry,” she grumbled. “But what I want to know is if he’s going to die
soon, we’ll leave him here. Otherwise, he’s going upstairs.”
Anouma sighed, looked out over the floor.
“He will survive indefinitely. It is how it works.”
“Upstairs, then,” said the nurse, and started to leave, before Anouma caught her
arm. She pulled a nearby IV bag towards her, twisted it. The side of the bag was wet,
and a tiny drop fell off the edge when it moved. The nurse looked closer, too, mouth
hanging open.
“How did this happen? Are these being re-used?” Anouma asked squinting at it.
“Can’t be. Those are fresh from upstairs. Must be a defect.”
Anouma let it go, frowned down the row of beds, their own bags dangling above
patients like bulbous flowers in a field of white.
“Double-check the supply room. We will lose a great deal of volume if there are
others like this.”
The nurse gave Anouma a withering look that went unnoticed.
“Yes, doctor,” she glowered, then walked back to her muted patient, clipboard in
hand. She kicked the brakes on the bed and began navigating it out of the room,
clanging against other patients as she went.
Anouma rubbed her eyes with weary hands, slow and agonizing.
“Long day, doctor?” asked a voice from behind her. She turned, saw an old man
laying in bed, his face covered with boils so big he almost didn’t look human anymore.
Still, somewhere in the mass of distorted flesh were brown eyes, dancing.
“Every day is a long day,” Anouma said to him, picking up his chart and glancing
over it. “How are you feeling today?”
“As well as I should, I think.”
She checked his meds, eyed him cautiously.
“You are not depressed? Fatigued? Thoughts of suicide?”
The man laughed — or at least, laughed as much as he could without being able to
move his face to smile.
“Because I won’t be on the cover of a fashion magazine? No, I’ll live.”
Anouma laughed, clipped the chart back to his bed.
107
“Perhaps not a fashion magazine, but you should qualify for a medical journal
write-up soon. It is widely assumed that Lumberger’s causes depression as one of its
symptoms. Apparently that is not the case.”
“No, they’re all just sad they look like burnt mozzarella,” he replied. “Me, I’m used
to being called ugly. I’ve been married for fifty years.”
Anouma smiled, patted him on a clear shoulder, and he patted her gloved hand
back. Then she saw it… another drop falling off the edge of his IV bag. She squeezed it
gently, and saw a tiny trickle from the side of the bag, running saline down onto her
glove.
“Odd,” she whispered. “Another one…”
The patient tried to turn his head to see what she was looking at, but was prevented
by his ailment.
“What’s what? What’s wrong?”
Anouma let go of the bag, shook her head.
“Nothing. We have to get you another bag. Some seem to be leaking for some
reason. I will fetch a new one now, I think. Just wait a moment while I—”
“Help!” came a shout from the far end of the room, and two paramedics in heavy
masks burst in the doors dragging a wretchedly battered woman in their arms, her
chest all bloodied and her head hanging limp, bouncing lifelessly as they pulled her
onto a stretcher. Anouma made a dash for them, saw Dr Bastien hang up a chart and
start running too.
“What happened?” Anouma asked, swapping gloves and swinging her stethoscope
around, checking vitals.
“White female, mid-twenties, looks like a knife attack. Three lacerations to the
abdomen, one to the neck.”
They lifted some gauze off her neck and blood sprayed out, making them both
flinch.
“Hold it steady,” she ordered.
“But—”
“If you are scared of blood, you are in the wrong job! Vitals?”
108
The paramedics scrambled to answer. Anouma ignored them, checked the wounds,
probing with gentle fingers.
“Very deep. Liver, maybe. Vitals! Now!”
“We couldn’t check,” said one of the paramedics, backing up again at the sight of
blood. Anouma glared at him.
“Bag him or get out,” she said coldly.
“How many?” Dr Bastien asked, arriving at her side, pulling on fresh gloves.
“Three at the chest, one at the neck.”
“Blood pressure?”
“We do not know yet,” she said, glaring at the paramedics.
Dr Bastien snuffed, knocked the brakes off the stretcher and wheeled the patient
over to the makeshift trauma area. Anouma kicked a pedal up and down near the bed,
priming the generator. A short cough later, the lights came on, beaming bright white
onto the blood.
One of the paramedics had already disappeared.
“Do a blood test on her, for god’s sake,” Anouma hissed to the other. He nodded,
pushed a portable testing unit against the woman’s arm and backed away as Dr Bastien
pushed his way in, feeling the chest wounds.
“Decreased lung function on the left,” he said to Anouma, squinting as he listened,
looked. Blood bubbled up and out of the cuts. The woman’s eyes suddenly shot open
and the shock of what was happening to her made her convulse violently. She jerked
upwards, trying to escape, gasped and coughed, spitting blood across herself and onto
the doctors.
“Blood pressure dropping,” Anouma called out, watching the monitor she’d
hooked up herself. Dr Bastien grabbed a scalpel off a tray, began work on the highest
of the wounds. Anouma grabbed the suction tube and was about to hand it over when
she noticed it was already bloody. She threw it to the ground.
“Suction contaminated,” she growled. “I will find another.”
“I’m losing her pulse,” Bastien said as the monitors wailed. “Skip the suction. We
need to stop the bleeding!”
109
Anouma nodded, passed him a new package of scalpels and gauze, and then swung
back for a pack of clamps. The cart with supplies was too far away… she reached for it,
but the monitors whined loudly, warning the patient was crashing.
“Twenty cc’s of Entophin!” Bastien called, starting compressions. Anouma
snatched a vial off the cart, punched a syringe into the needle dispenser and drew
serum. She aimed for a bulging vein on the patient’s arm.
The woman convulsed again, and Anouma’s hand was hit so suddenly the needle
missed its target and slid across the back of her right glove, ripping latex and hitting
her skin.
The paramedic gasped, but Anouma didn’t flinch, tried again and pushed the meds.
The woman’s heart rate started coming back up, and the monitor calmed, but the blood
was still pouring from her wounds.
“I need suction,” Bastien called, already cutting and probing without the aid of the
clamps Anouma had missed. She pulled off her gloves, opened a drawer with her
fingertips, removed a packaged suction head and swapped out the old one. She handed
it over to Bastien, who took it without looking.
The back of her hand was bleeding slightly, but she ignored it, threw on a new set
of gloves and re-joined the crisis. The paramedic eyed her anxiously.
“You will need a packer,” she said, checking the stats. She started to go back to the
cupboard, but Bastien caught her hand, letting the suction drop out and away, and
twisted it so he could see the blood beneath her glove.
“When did this happen?” he said gravely.
“Just now,” she offered, tried to pull away.
“Fanta,” he said, holding tight. “when?”
She met his eyes, cold and unforgiving.
“Yes, I came in contact,” she admitted.
Bastien pushed down on the wound he was working on to stop the bleeding, waved
a bloodied hand out to the paramedic.
“Give me the test results!” he shouted. The paramedic was startled, jumped up and
almost tossed the device towards Bastien, who caught it deftly and quickly paged
through screens.
110
“TB-G 14,” he sighed, threw the device at the side of the bed, then looked at
Anouma. “Go clean that, and stay away from the patient, Fanta.”
Anouma shook her head, grabbed the suction, started back. Bastien caught her
wrist, squeezed.
“Dr Anouma, leave the room.”
“You need me.”
“Find Dr Laroche!” Bastien barked at the paramedic. “Now!”
Anouma tried to break free, but she wasn’t nearly as strong as the old man. His
eyes were cold and menacing.
“It is a tiny scratch,” she tried. “you need me now.”
“TB-G 14 could kill you!” he boomed. “You don’t have the antibodies. Someone else
will take your place. That’s final. Now back away so I can save this patient!”
The ferocity of it make her flinch, and she reluctantly stepped back, held her hand
gingerly, watched him work on his own.
“TB-G is not the same as Tuberculosis,” she said quietly. “I am in virtually no
danger of contracting it from her.”
“‘Virtually’ is not ‘absolutely’, Fanta. There’s a very large gulf between them. One
I’ve lost many colleagues to.”
She didn’t want to leave, hesitated, but saw he wouldn’t hear any more objections.
She nodded. Slightly. Turned halfway.
“I will go clean this out. And… find Dr Laroche.”
He didn’t reply, just kept working.
She stormed into the side room and hit the water on harder than she needed to.
She started scrubbing disinfectant onto her hands, her teeth clenched shut and her
eyes not watching what she was doing. She heard the sound of the monitors coding
again, and though Dr Laroche ran past her as she stood there, by the sounds and shouts
and panic in the air, she knew it was too late.
She gripped the edge of the sink, her head bowed, and refused to cry.
111
21
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
It was close to eleven o’clock before the Healer escaped the old city limits. Behind
him, Prague was a faint glow, patches of lights coming from fireplaces and not
electricity, dark spots where civilization had retreated. Like a medieval town again.
He passed a man with a bucket, trying to steal some water from a public drinking
fountain; all that came out was dark sewage. The man took it anyway. Nearby, a
manhole bubbled up, pushed by foam and dirt as the old underground infrastructure
crumbled. A pair of bodies lay in a ditch, decomposing in the frigid air. They were being
submerged by the sewage leak, would stay frozen until spring. It was a long time away.
An armoured car driven by two men in hazmat suits rumbled down the country
road. On the side of the truck was a picture of a young woman smiling, a crystal glass
in her hand, the vibrant logo of her company teasing the grey, decrepit world she
passed by.
The proud stadium, once a great and majestic thing, had been turned into a sorting
area for the dead. A large billboard along the road had advertised a EuroCup match
there from years before, the larger-than-life players faded and blue. There were no
games there now, only massive furnaces turning the sky red with heat.
Large trucks covered in snow and mud paced through, in endless shifts, dropping
off their grim cargo. The colour-coded body bags were deposited in heaps at the
entrances, and workers moved with uneasy speed to get them cleared away, to the
incinerators, as the cold set in. In the centre of the stadium, four pillars of smoke
reached into the sky and faded into the clouds. Ash covered the snow on the ground.
112
Across the way in a soccer pitch, a large group had gathered, all dressed in black,
watching the stadium’s fires. Some were praying, others weeping, and the rest just
staring in uncertain disbelief. The Healer saw one cough openly, no masks in sight. He
looked away in disgust.
He found a small patch of unused land at the edge of town, near a brook, and set
up his tent. He lay there in the darkness, the mask pressing against his skin and the
cold seeping past his armour. He listened to the sound of his breathing.
The radio crackled to life.
“Home to Green Four,” came the familiar voice. He sat up, flipped up the antenna,
stared up into the sky.
“Green Four here. Go ahead.”
“You are outside Prague city limits,” Home said. “Please advise on timetable.”
He pushed open the door to his tent, looked at the pitch black sky.
“I have a credible lead. Will investigate tomorrow.”
Static.
“Understood, Green Four. However…” the voice trailed off, tentative. “Your
schedule may not allow for delay.”
The Healer looked at the ground, let the tent close again.
“Approaching a target in the dark risks unnecessary violent confrontations,” he
said, devoid of emotion. “It is best to make contact in the morning, in my experience.”
“Such tactics are not standard practices,” came the answer. It was meant to be the
final word.
“Standard practices,” the Healer said coldly, “do not reflect the reality of the
mission.”
There was a long silence. The wind blew the tent and it angled slightly, fluttering.
“Green Four, your experience is noted. You are the last of the first wave. There had
been talk of relieving you as well, to give you the hero’s welcome you deserve. But you,
above all others, were able to bring satisfactory results for us.”
The Healer put his head in his hands, said nothing.
“However, your rate of progress has slowed in recent months. We are re-evaluating
our earlier decision.”
113
Static again. The Healer didn’t move. The wind gusted again, twigs hitting the tent
and flying away.
“How long do I have?” the Healer asked.
Static.
“You must leave Prague within forty-eight hours. One way or another.”
The Healer said nothing for some time.
“Good luck, Green Four. We will monitor your progress carefully.”
He turned down the antenna once more, and sat there in the dark, unmoving.
* * *
In his dream, he felt the warmth of a summer’s day in the fields of Tacheng. The
grass was brushing against his palms as he ran toward the piercing blue sky, chasing
his brother, and he felt lightness in his chest in a way he had forgotten long ago.
And then the warmth grew stronger and redder until it was a sudden fire, lashing
at his face, and he was aware he was wearing his mask, and he heard the sound of his
voice (though he wasn’t speaking) in his native tongue, calling for rear guards, to hold
the line. Hold the line.
And he saw the eyes of a girl in the eastern provinces, not angry, not sad, just
bewildered as the smoke choked her and her black hair burned so brightly.
He never heard her scream, not this time, but he was so overcome with his own
voice calling out orders that he woke with a start, gasping, his suit whining in his ears,
warning him to pace himself, to calm himself, to stay on target.
* * *
Carey sat on a wire-mesh chair beneath the giant logo for Zemus Pharmaceuticals,
a blue glow shining from behind its spotless silvery lettering. He paged through the
magazine one more time, not pausing at the articles or photos; just going through the
motions, his eyes on the clock above the receptionist’s desk.
114
He put the magazine aside, straightened out his trousers, and got up. Once he was
at standing height, the receptionist gave him an evil stare, a carrot stick hanging out of
her mouth, pinched between manicured fingers.
Carey leaned on the edge of her desk, smiled as best he could.
“I don’t suppose you have any further information about Mr Daniels, do you?” he
asked.
The receptionist chewed her carrot at him.
“Mr Daniels is not in the office at the moment,” she replied. “If you’d like to leave
a message, I can be sure he calls you as soon as he gets in.”
Carey sighed, played with a set of business cards on the counter, which were
promptly taken away from him.
“Actually, I did that yesterday. All day yesterday, in fact, and he never did call
back.”
“He’s a very busy man, Mr Daniels is.”
“I appreciate that, but I’m here on government business.”
She rolled her eyes, cracked off another piece of carrot, chewed noisily.
“Everyone calling Mr Daniels is on government business,” she sighed. “But if you
want to leave another message, I can be sure he—”
“Okay, listen, I don’t believe you anymore. He’s in his office right now, isn’t he? I
just can’t believe that a vice president at a major pharmaceutical company isn’t in the
office at… at a half past ten on a Tuesday. It’s just beyond belief.”
She said nothing, but made it clear it was because he bored her.
“I demand to be taken to see Mr Daniels immediately!” Carey said, his voice rising.
This got her attention. She scowled at him, waved a menacing carrot.
“Mr Daniels got in a half hour ago,” she said.
“And you’re just telling me this now?”
“He’s gone straight into a board meeting. All-day type of thing. You could come
back tomorrow, or leave a message, which I assure you he will reply to as soon as he
can.”
115
Carey pressed his forehead against the counter, whimpered, then started to laugh
quietly. He propped his head up on one hand, and let out a loud moan, much to the
receptionist’s displeasure.
“Miss, this is not the situation I wanted to be in.”
“No, sir,” she said, inching away from him.
“My boss — he’s the Director of the Containment Office, mind you — he’s very strict
about these kinds of things. Has rules. Follow the rules. Goose-stepping sort of fellow,
if you know what I mean.”
By the way she slowed her chewing, it was clear she did not.
“Now my boss, he told me very clearly: if they give you any lip, any lip at all, I want
you to declare a D-22 right there, on the spot.”
The receptionist blinked twice, refused to betray confusion.
“I said to him: sir, I think that’s counter-productive. A D-22 would just… just… it
would be totally out of proportion to the crime, honestly. And I—”
“Fine, I’ll bite. What’s a D-22?”
Carey sprung to life. He pulled a small handheld out of his pocket, hit a few screens,
turned it to show her briefly.
“Strictly speaking, a D-22 is when I say our scanners have picked up a foreign
substance in the air, and you all have to be quarantined until further notice.”
She stopped chewing altogether.
“See, it’s completely unethical in these circumstances, because first of all, I don’t
actually have a scanner on me most of the time. And they take, literally, an hour to
process the air for a sample. So the suggestion that I’d be able to say for certain that
you were all infected with something like Kiev-7… it’s absurd, really.”
The receptionist swallowed slowly.
“And in the end, it really gets us no closer to whatever we’re after in the first place.
Sure, they’d lock down the whole building, strip every worker naked and spray them
with six batches of disinfectant. And sort you by function and rank, then clothe you in
standard issue government jumpsuits — good God do those chafe, let me tell you —
and send you to Brighton for quarantine.”
“B-B-B-Brighton?”
116
“Oh certainly, for at least twenty-six weeks. By which point they’d have ascertained
that my original reading was probably incorrect, and they’d replace my scanner and
shrug and say ‘Oh well! Better luck next time!’”
The receptionist smiled weakly.
“But as I said to my boss… it won’t really help me have a sit-down with Mr Daniels.”
“Mr Daniels hasn’t been in the office for weeks,” blurted out the girl, blanching
horribly. “Nobody’s seen him for so long. The president is in a tizzy, everyone is after
him. I honestly, truly, don’t know where he is!”
Carey leaned over the counter, close to the receptionist, squinted at her.
“Are you sure about that? No idea at all?”
She darted nervous glances left and right. Leaned closer to him.
“He… he’s been accessing the mainframe here, through a secure connection,” she
whispered.
“Do you know where from?”
“It’s never clear, but one time I saw his address resolving to something to do with
‘Praha’.”
Carey frowned.
“Prague?”
“That’s what I thought, too. But I can’t be sure.”
Carey nodded, stood back from the desk, checking his handheld again.
“Well,” he said loudly, jovially. “No readings here. Must be clean. Thank you!”
He turned to leave, hit the button at the lift, and his phone buzzed in his pocket.
He slid it out, flipped it open, and was greeted with the sound of the Director clearing
his throat.
“Good God, Carey, it’s been a full day. You’re supposed to have told me you took
care of things.”
Carey smiled a fake smile, nodded to the receptionist, who was eyeing him
cautiously.
“Took longer than expected, sir. Ran into a bit of interference, but I pulled the old
D-22 card, and things worked out fine.”
117
“The what? Listen, Carey, there’s no time for prattling around. Have you given him
the message, or not?”
Carey nodded to the receptionist, got into the empty elevator, and the doors closed.
His composure melted instantly.
“No, sir. He’s not here.”
“Then go to his home, blast you. Show some initiative!”
“It’s not that, sir. He’s not in the country. I have reason to suspect he’s in the Czech
Republic at the moment. Although I’d like to get our boys here to check server logs to
be sure if—”
“No time for that, and no politics about it. Listen here, Carey… if anyone but you
or me thinks he’s outside the country, there’ll be hell to pay. Absolute hell.”
“Yes sir.”
“I need you to get on a plane, get to whatever backward shithole he’s stuck in, and
bring him back.”
“S-s-sir, we’re talking about a black zone… there are… there are protocols about
quarantine and such, and I’m not sure—”
The Director cleared his throat.
“You’ve done this before, haven’t you, Will?”
Carey rested his head against the wall of the elevator, closed his eyes.
“Oh, uh, yes sir, but I… well, yes. Yes I have.”
“Good. I’ll requisition the plane. Get back here as fast as you can.”
Carey shook his head slowly, as if trying to jostle a good excuse to the fore. His
hand pressed against his forehead, he whimpered a reply.
“Sir,” he said. “Sir… if… if I find him, there are only two ways this can turn out.
Prison, or… or —”
The Director interrupted him.
“Or exile,” he said, his voice almost angry, but eerily calm.
118
22
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 28
In the oppressive dark of the night, snow still glowed impossibly as it drifted into
the street by the hospital. Anouma leaned against the wall, her mask hanging loose
around her neck, breathing in the clear cold air.
The scrape on the back of her hand was wrapped in a thick bandage meant for
purging wounds. She absent-mindedly rubbed it, the peach colour stark against her
brown skin.
A woman pushed a baby carriage down the side street, the wheels catching and
spinning in the thickening snow. There was no baby inside: it rattled and clanked as
the random junk and food shook on the uneven ground.
Anouma heard the crunch of snow underfoot behind her, didn’t turn, waited for Dr
Bastien to stop next to her, looking out into the winter.
“I didn’t mean to be harsh,” he said. “I hope you understand.”
She nodded, looked over at him.
“I just wish I could have helped more.”
“I do, too,” he said, his tired eyes meeting hers. “I think we all do. I wish to god
they’d immunized you before you got on that plane. It’s unfair, leaving you with that
handicap. You’ve been so brave, coming here.”
Anouma shrugged, watched the woman with the carriage.
“It is what they would have done for us,” she said.
Bastien snorted, she felt him watching her.
“Not most of them,” he said, angrily. “And that you think that… it’s what makes
you a good doctor, I suppose.”
119
“People are not as callous as you think, Bastien,” she said, meeting his gaze again.
“Not callous, no,” he said. “Myopic. Dangerously myopic.”
“I cannot forget what they did for my people,” she said.
“And you shouldn’t. Those doctors, the scientists and their companies, they saved
the world. Once upon a time. But you can’t forget what they didn’t do.”
Anouma nodded slightly.
“It is not their fault. There are only so many resources they can—”
Bastien coughed loudly, waved her to silence.
“Don’t buy their bullshit so willingly,” he grumbled. “You embarrass yourself.”
“They saved my country when we were on the brink of extinction. They may be only
human, but they are good people.”
“You’ve got your history confused,” he said simply.
Anouma put a hand on his shoulder and he winced, refused to look back. The scars
on his face, around his neck… signs of battles he’d fought with diseases that would have
crushed anyone else where they stood. He was not easily bowed by anything anymore.
“What happened in Russia, that is not your fault,” she ventured. “The odds were
against you. Against all of you. And you did the best you could. But it is different here!
This is not the same situation. You cannot go on carrying the chains they forced on you
back then.”
He looked round at her suddenly, his eyes narrow.
“The chains aren’t gone,” he growled. “they’ll tug them when they’re threatened.”
Anouma tried to object, but he cut her off.
“The only difference between then and now,” he said bitterly, “is that they’ve
become better at wrapping the truth in dangerous hopes.”
“Hope is not dangerous. Hope is how we survive.”
“Hope is how you think you’d survive. But you won’t.” He seemed lost in a flash of
a painful memory, squinted at her. “Hope helps nothing. And in a painful majority of
cases, neither can you. Sometimes it almost seems better to do it like the Healers did
it. Clean it all out, start fresh. The battle here just… it just never ends.”
The wind blew, knocked Anouma’s mask about her neck, and she pushed some hair
from her face. They stood there in the cold as the snow fell.
120
“How is Adjobi?” Bastien asked, his tone back to his normal, battle weary self.
“He is brave. His white count is very low, but he has not worsened.”
“That’s good,” was the reply, empty.
“What is wrong?” she asked. He avoided her eyes.
“Word came in from Paris,” he said. “They say there isn’t sufficient demand yet to
produce another run of vaccines.”
Anouma’s face went blank, she could feel it.
“Did they say…”
He shook his head grimly.
“Twelve months.”
She nodded solemnly.
“At the earliest,” he added, then shook his head. “And I’m not sure I can keep the
health director at bay to the end of the week, let alone a year. He’s demanding all blood
samples be delivered tomorrow, so they can start issuing deportation orders on
December the first.”
Anouma said nothing.
“I’ll cover for you as best I can, Fanta, but I can’t hide you forever. Too many people
know where you and Adjobi came from, and they’ll make the connection.”
“If only they had kept a little of the vaccine. Just two doses, and we would be fine…”
“Fanta,” Bastien said gravely. “nearly two million Africans died from AIDS last year
alone. Two doses doesn’t begin to cover it. It’s an untreated epidemic of dead diseases,
and it makes me sick every time I talk to Geneva.”
Anouma bowed her head, stared at the snow in silence.
“It’s not what they do,” he said flatly. “it’s what they ignore. And they’ll punish you
for their faults, believe me. It’s the proud chains they’ll use to hang us all.”
121
NOVEMBER 29
23
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
In his backpack were the instruments needed for a sustainable incursion into a
foreign land, all carefully wrapped and positioned in layers of tough bullet-proof cloth;
never easily accessible, most of it rarely touched. It weighed as much as a second
person on his back, and despite the metal rails built to alleviate the strain on his spine,
the Healer had built a formidable set of muscles along his shoulders and torso because
of it.
Before the sun rose that morning, he was perched in the darkness of the tent,
carefully sorting and shifting the things he needed to set out.
The outer layer of the pack was the easiest to reach, but it contained mostly armour
plating and bandages, never anything breakable or important. He removed the
topmost covering on his gloves and used the latex layer to grab a pair of lifting tabs on
the pack, slowly and patiently shifted the entire platform over onto a clean space on
the tent floor.
In the next layer was a red plastic device meant for blood analysis. He removed it
from its holding brace and connected it to a small battery wire that peeked through the
middle of his pack. He left it on the ground, its battery indicator slowly animating
upwards.
Another device, this one grey and half-metal, connected to a socket along his left
biceps, and his suit contracted slightly along his arm like a mechanical tourniquet. A
faint beep close to his ear announced the end of the test, and his suit relieved the
pressure gradually, the feeling coming back to his clenched hand. He replaced the
122
device in the pack, exactly as before, and dismissed the results readout on a small
screen below; he did not pause to read. The radio lay silent on the ground beside him;
that was all he needed to know.
The blood analysis device finished charging, and a faint blue light pulsed to life on
its head. The Healer slipped his hand back into its outer glove, unlatched a piece of
armour on his left forearm. He folded it back and peeled open a portal in the suit,
rimmed with bright yellow, clean white rubber beneath.
Sliding his glove off again, he carefully placed his index finger and thumb on two
depressions along the yellow rim, twisted counter-clockwise twice, and then pushed
down. It clicked open, and he pinched his fingers together to remove it, placing it next
to the blood analysis device in his pack. A disinfectant spray doused it immediately on
contact.
The grey device connected seamlessly with the new socket he’d uncovered, and he
rotated it clockwise, a quarter-turn, until he heard it latch. He pushed the blue button
at the head, and a quiet beep played in his ears; he felt a tug and hiss as the device
sucked the air out of the connection, creating a miniature vacuum. A small LCD
readout showed the airlock was confirmed, and a second beep preceded a thirtysecond spray of strong disinfectant. His skin stayed carefully isolated from this
routine, covered by two further layers of protection.
After a moment of calibration, the device connected itself to his static IV and
pumped five millilitres of blood into a small vial, closed the connection and began
processing. He unlatched it, replaced all the covers in a careful repetition of his earlier
routine, and glanced at the device’s small screen. No warnings.
He checked his second pack, the smaller one that carried his food and tools, saw
the edge of a wafer package, beckoning him. He looked away immediately, back at the
task at hand. The sun was rising.
* * *
It was an hour before he made it back to the main road north into Prague, his pace
methodical, yet faster than usual.
123
The neighbourhood he was tracking was made up of low-rise buildings, blankets
hung from open windows. In the early morning light, he heard the sounds of children
waking their parents, almost-quiet clanging dishes, yawns travelling far in the thin
cold air. An old man in a housecoat stood on his front step, smoking a cigarette, his
eyes locked on the Healer, his hands frozen.
The Healer checked the street sign again: Michalská. This was the right place, but
not yet at the right house. He turned his head away from the old man, looked down the
street. A thin coating of snow lay on the ground, and more was falling. He kept moving,
checking back a few steps later. The old man’s eyes narrowed, frozen, his head turned
but his body unmoved. You are not welcome here.
Number 21 was a two-storey apartment complex with a small chimney off to the
right, puffing out smoke in a lazy drizzle. The front door had a large oval window in it,
though the glass was badly cracked, the shiny metal handle dented and warped inward.
There were no lights inside the foyer.
A shift in light to his left caught his eye, and he twitched his head slightly to see.
Three men, just out of bed it seemed, watching him from a distance. The street was
suddenly silent. Children were quiet.
He turned his head straight again, as if to show he would ignore them all. He
listened carefully for the sound of feet in snow. There was silence for a minute. No
sounds, no movement, no hint of intention. The Healer carefully walked up the steps
to the front door, wrapped his fingers round the handle, and opened it.
Still, silence.
He stepped inside, his foot gravelled and rough, grinding into the dirty wood floor,
a piercing noise. The door slowly eased to a close behind him, but he did not turn his
head to look out. They were watching him with gaping mouths.
The door at the end of the hall was shut tight, but in the dark he could clearly see
the hint of shadows right under the door. The peep hole flickered light. Nervous
movements. He stopped to the left of the door, his back to the wall, and listened.
Outside, faces at the base of the steps, watching him through the shattered glass.
No sounds.
124
He reached a hand out, saw the faces outside tense, and knocked on the door three
times. The faces at the door creeped ever closer, desperate to see what would happen.
After a short period of silence, he reached over, knocked again, three times.
He heard a quiet shuffle from inside, fading as it went, a floorboard creaking.
Escape! He quickly unsheathed his machete, wedged its blade against the doorknob
and slammed down the handle until the brass orb hit the ground with a bang.
There was a yelp from inside as the blade pounded into the locking mechanism.
The door swung open. He pushed it, but a chain at the top stopped him. He glanced
back at the front door, the faces right against the glass now, their expressions tense,
angry, vengeful. He kicked the door open and quickly stormed in.
He was straight into the living room, a single rug covering the abused oak floor. To
the right, a grimy kitchen, the refrigerator door slightly ajar, feeble light lighting the
cupboards; no one there. He turned and saw, in the corner, a woman and a child
huddled in the corner, behind a chair. The woman didn’t make eye contact, but the boy
watched the Healer with wide open eyes. Not afraid, just… in awe.
The Healer carefully walked over, knelt down in front of the woman, but did not
speak. The boy’s mouth was crusted over with scabs, his skin yellowing, and he was
thinner than he ought to be, even malnourished. The Healer reached out a careful
hand, pushed the boy’s long hair off his forehead, saw the pox there. The woman could
tell, pulled the boy closer, tighter, started whimpering.
Behind him, a creak, the floor giving the rescue party away, and the Healer got to
his feet quickly, put his hand out to them as a warning. There were five of them, all
large men, all groggy, but intensely awake. He stared them down, one by one, and then
shook his head.
They started to spread out, trying to encircle him. Their stances were brave, but
inexperienced; spurred on by a sense of nobility, protecting their own. The one further
to his left put his arms out, his fists ready, and made quick eye contact with the others.
The Healer lowered his hand, kept his palms out, passive. The men all shifted
themselves, nervous. The Healer — hands out and visible — slowly bowed to them…
but as he held the bow he heard the swish from the left, and caught a man’s leg before
it hit his face.
125
With a quick twist, the man was flipped off his feet. He landed on his back, and the
Healer threw his leg away, stood straight, and blocked a wild punch from another
attacker. He grabbed the wrist, hit the elbow to disable him, and then slammed his
knee into the man’s right side, knocking him down and away. He turned to the last
three assailants, each backing up, looking oddly exposed with the numbers in their
favour.
The Healer again reached out a hand, shook his head ‘no’, but the boy was crying
now, and it added fire to their cause. The two downed men were groaning and rolling
back to their feet. He darted a look to them, and shook his head again.
The man in the middle was whispering something to himself, and the other two
reacted, became calm. The Healer didn’t understand the language, but grasped the
meaning by the pauses made at the last second…
One… two… three!
They charged him at once, a primal scream filling the room, but he was too fast.
He slammed the middle man’s head into the attacker on the right, and then pounded
the left-most face with a sharp plated elbow, sending them all sprawling, but none to
the floor. He kicked the middle man in the small of the back with so much force the
poor wretch lost his footing and landed on his back, his head crashing into the wood.
The one with the bloodied face was stumbling forward, not able to fight in his state
of shock, but valiantly wanting more. The Healer hit him in the stomach as hard as he
could, winded him so badly he collapsed onto the ground, probably glad he had an
excuse to stop.
The last man was dazed and unhurt, but the Healer passed up an easy kick to the
head. Instead, he grabbed him by the throat, lifted him off the ground, and pinned him
against the wall, the muscles in his arm twitching madly under the strain.
The Healer shook his head again, and the man’s eyes said he finally understood.
He sputtered something in gasps, and at the last, the Healer recognized a fragment of
German. He barely understood, but there was enough to follow…
He let the man go, let him drop to the ground, slumping into a pile. The Healer
knelt down before him, hand on his machete, warning.
126
“This boy sick,” he said, only able to piece together slivers of German to make his
case. “I must look… look for blood of Lewis.”
The man stared up, his eyes narrow, scared, his lip trembling.
“Boy?” he asked, speaking quietly but slowly. “Lewis is not here.”
The Healer looked at the boy, huddled in his mother’s arms, tears in his eyes, and
pointed.
“Lewis is not?” he asked.
The mother made eye contact, shivering, face wet, and urgently looked at the man
at the Healer’s feet, shook her head, didn’t speak, but shook her head.
“Lewis is not here,” the Healer understood from the tired man. “Not here… large.”
The word was wrong, but the context made sense. Lewis had not been there for
some time. The men behind him started getting their strength back, creaked back to
their feet.
“Where did Lewis go?” he asked, his voice deep with rage.
The man and woman traded looks, and she quickly glanced at the Healer
nervously, then back down, then seemed to think. She spoke quickly in Czech to the
man, her voice wavering, fearful, desperate. The man looked solemn, took a shaky
breath himself.
“We not know,” he answered cautiously. “Not here large.”
The Healer nodded, checked out the window at the distant skyline beyond the
snow. A massive city, with no leads.
The woman was talking again, and it sounded like an argument. The Healer looked
down at her and she quieted immediately, her eyes continuing the conflict silently. The
Healer glanced at the man, who was looking away, trying to avoid saying something.
He looked back up.
“Lewis —” … something new, difficult to understand … “— with. I know where.”
The Healer repeated the word he had missed, but the man seemed at a loss. The
Healer repeated it again, his voice sounding angrier than he intended, and the man’s
face fixed in fear.
“Lewis with wife. But not.”
“Wife,” he repeated.
127
“Not.”
The Healer nodded.
“Where is his wife?” he asked. The man looked sheepish now, glanced to his
comrades anxiously.
“Home of fire work,” the man said.
“Fire?”
“Big fire. With… people?”
Pause. He heard the breathing of the other men, but they were not moving.
Then, he understood.
“Home of big fire… old home of… games?”
The man looked at him blankly.
“Home of big fire, is also for games?” the Healer repeated, urgent.
The man nodded slowly.
“Games not large,” he said solemnly. “Not large. Fire now. Big fire.”
The Healer nodded, stepped back.
“Yes,” was all he could think to say.
The man touched his hand before he could leave, and he looked down again. The
eyes were red, pained, wrestling with a guilt he would never defeat. After a pause, a
raspy breath, he spoke:
“Wife… Marta. Lewis Kwong.”
Kwong. He bowed to the man, who retreated at the motion, straightened and said
a simple: “Thank you.”
The man didn’t answer. None of them spoke a word until he was gone from sight.
128
24
VIA RAINUSSO 108, MODENA, ITALY
JANUARY 5
Rhodri rolled off Eva and collapsed on the bed, arms over his head and breathing
heavily. She curled around him, rested her head on his chest, kissed it.
“Don’t go back to work,” she murmured, holding him tight. “Take the afternoon
off.”
He brushed her bare back with a dancing fingertip, smiled at her.
“What about you? Nothing to sell today?”
She rolled her eyes at him.
“I’ve got to paint more to sell more. And I’m definitely not inspired these days.”
“What do you need for inspiration? Tell me and I’ll get it for you.”
She stretched out and kissed him, his beard scratching her chin, and rested her
face against his neck.
“You don’t need to buy me things. I’m fine the way I am. And we should be saving,
not spending. Who knows when your luck will run out with the web jobs?”
Rhodri shrugged, stared at the ceiling.
“I’m pretty confident I’ve got it all taken care of.”
“Yeah, you say that a lot. But I seem to remember being overjoyed about eating an
apple a few months ago. I know how fast things can change.”
He bent his face down, looked her straight in the eyes, spoke softly.
“Things are going to be good now, Eva. I promise you that. Things are under
control, and getting better. I’m finally happy, and I’m going to make you happy too.”
She grinned at him, then swung a leg across him, crouching among the sheets, and
kissed his chin.
129
“Make me happy. Take the day off.”
He tried to protest, but she moved her body down gently and took away his
argument.
It was only minutes later that the peace was interrupted by the phone ringing
loudly, shattering the moment. Rhodri turned an anxious face to the bedside table, and
Eva caught his cheek with desperate hands.
“Ignore it,” she pleaded. “They’ll call back.”
He did, and they did. A minute later. This time, she couldn’t stop him from
snatching the handset off the cradle and holding it to his ear, his other hand pressing
a gentle finger to her lips to keep her quiet. She gave up the sounds, but not the
motions. He bit back a moan himself.
“Rhodri here,” he said, wavering.
He listened as Eva continued to make love, kissing his neck and his other ear, so
immersed in the act that she didn’t notice he was starting to sit up in bed, his brow
tight with concern.
“Right now?” he asked. “Do I have time to—”
Eva saw his expression, held back a bit, and tried in vain to hear the other end of
the conversation.
“All right,” Rhodri said. “Got it. I’ll call you when we get there.”
He hung up the phone, tossed it to the end of the bed. Eva, pausing herself, tried
to catch his gaze.
“When we get where?” she asked.
He was distracted, looking around the room.
“Graz. Austria.”
“Austria? What’s in Austria?”
“A great new opportunity, apparently,” he said, sliding out from under her and
throwing on his clothes. She sat there, nonplussed, and made no move to prepare.
“That was Dmitri again?” she asked, coldness in her voice.
“Yeah. He just heard there’s a big demand for web designers in Graz right now.
Money to be made. He’s already got us train tickets, but we’ve got to be at the station
by six.”
130
“And you trust him? You think this is a good idea?”
Rhodri smiled at her, but it was a weak smile. He shrugged.
“Dmitri’s always come through for me. If it weren’t for him, we’d be out on the
street right now. So if he wants us to go to Austria, I think we ought to give it a try.”
“What if we don’t like it there. What if there’s an outbreak, or the only place to stay
is worse than this?”
“The trains run both ways, Eva. Now come on, we’ve got to get ready. I need to pack
up the office and tell the landlord I’m leaving.”
Eva slipped into a pair of pyjama pants and a top, reached Rhodri as he was tying
his shoes. She crouched down next to him, brushed the side of his face with her fingers
and he looked at her. She rested her forehead against his.
“Are you sure we need this? I like it here. I thought we could just stay. You know.
Like forever.”
“Eva, I’m sorry. I like it here, too. But this is important to me. I wouldn’t even
entertain this idea if it weren’t important. We can make things better in Austria. Just
give it a try, okay?”
Eva looked at the ground for a minute, frowning. Then she met his eyes, nodded
slightly.
“Will you get any afternoons off in Graz?” she asked, and he grinned.
“I’ll make sure I do,” he replied.
* * *
Beyond the blue haze, Eva could see shapes. White and brown, grey and black…
they swirled ever so slightly, then began to solidify, became clear. She closed her eyes
for a moment, and when she opened them again, she was on the ground in the snow,
staring at a broken crate.
She rolled over, arm numb, and hit her head on the underside of the bench. Her
vision flooded again, but she fought it and crawled out into the square. The snow had
slowed to a trickle, though the sky was clear, light blue with only a few clouds. The air
was colder than before, and she pulled her jacket tight.
She was alone; Pyotr had left in the night. The only footprints were her own.
131
Just then, a shuffle from the alley sent her racing for the nearest wall. She pressed
herself against it tightly, grabbed a piece of broken wood from the ground and held it
ready. She heard the sound of feet crunching in the snow, and then, at the entrance…
“Eva?” asked Pyotr from a distance. She dropped the wood and rushed to him, and
he wrapped her in a blanket, rubbing her back. “Are you okay? When did you wake
up?”
“Just now,” she wheezed, her teeth chattering. “Where were you?”
“I had to go check on some—”
“You left me here, alone?” she said furiously.
“Listen, nobody’d come near you, lying on the ground like that. You were safer here
than most places.”
“So you say. I could’ve frozen to death.”
He nodded solemnly, met her eyes.
“I’m sorry, okay? I just wanted to see what I could find out.”
“About what?” she spat.
“Your mother,” he said, staring at his feet.
Eva closed her mouth, bit her lip. She was still woozy, but she had enough wits to
know what to do. She wrapped an arm around Pyotr, holding him tight.
“I’m sorry,” she whispered. “I’m sorry, and thank you.”
She let go and he shrugged, unhappily.
“It’s not all good news,” he said. “All I’ve got is an address from three weeks ago. If
she’s moved since then — and given the neighbourhood, she would — we’re out of
luck.”
Eva nodded, her determined air returning.
“How far is it?” she asked.
“Not far. A few blocks, actually. But… Eva, listen. You said this new plague hits in
December, right?”
“That’s what the police said.”
“That’s in two days, Eva. I don’t know if we have enough time to… I mean, if she’s
really lost out there, I don’t know if we’ll be able to find her before—”
132
“I know. I know what you’re saying,” said Eva. “But we have to try. She’s all I’ve got
left.”
“You’ve got Rhodri…”
“Not anymore,” she said, and started down the alley without him.
“Eva! Eva, what’s going on? What happened to you?”
She ignored him, kept walking, swaying side to side from the Tezocet, and he
caught her by the arm, turned her around.
“What happened with Rhodri, Eva?”
She didn’t meet his eyes, took shaky breaths.
“I can’t talk about it, Pyotr. I’m sorry. All I can say is that… that we’re not together
anymore, and you have to leave it at that.”
He stared at her, then nodded solemnly.
“Got it. Sorry. Forget I said anything.”
She managed a weak smile.
“So let’s go find your mum, and get out of this hellhole before the end of the month,
all right?”
* * *
Three blocks away, they stopped across the street from low-rise building, torn
apart by fire, looting and general decay. The top floors were missing entirely and she
could see the pale clouds and snow falling through the windows.
“This is it,” he said.
“Doesn’t look like the kind of place my mother would live,” Eva said.
“You’d be surprised,” he said. “Come on, let’s go see.”
The ground floor of the building was mostly boarded up, spray painted and abused.
There was trash piled up so thick it was like a horrible wall of filth blocking their way.
Pyotr pushed his way in and reached back for Eva, who had a hard time managing the
uneven footing to get to the windows. She thought she saw a human arm sticking from
one of the bags there. The air was ripe like sour grape jelly.
133
Pyotr brought them through to an old wooden window that thankfully slid up
without much trouble. He climbed inside, then and lifted her over the ledge, putting
her feet down carefully on an old wood floor.
It smelled of urine and cinnamon, which was an odd and sickening combination.
Eva fumbled trying to cover her mouth and nose with her hand. Pyotr just screwed up
his face, persevered.
The room was mostly empty, a broken chair lying sideways in the corner. A door
at the far end that was waving slightly in a breeze Eva couldn’t feel, a sliver of light
easing in and out along the floor like a faint heartbeat. An odd tension, the starkness
of it, and it made Eva’s haze lift even more. She swallowed slowly.
Pyotr opened the door halfway and they sneaked through, found another empty
room on the other side. It didn’t smell nearly as bad here, but again there was no sign
of Eva’s mother. A cool breeze drifted through.
Then they heard it: a scuffling, a thud and scuffling, and the creak of a floorboard
above. It stopped suddenly, and the room got so quiet Eva tried not to breathe, as if
there were something to hear her. She cocked her head to Pyotr, motioned to the door.
He nodded to her, continued on. She followed through the doorless exit and into a
narrow hallway, a row of nails in the wall where frames had once hung. At the end of
the stretch was the source of the light: a stairwell leading up, the head of the bannister
missing and a coat draped over the railing.
Eva grabbed Pyotr’s arm before he could walk further.
“It’s not my mother, I can tell,” she whispered as quietly as she could.
He nodded to her, reassuring, and she felt her fear starting to ease away just by the
motion.
“We’ll see,” he whispered back. “You can never be sure.”
He took her hands in his, and tugging her along, they walked as gingerly as they
could to avoid making noise.
She heard another scuffle, another thump, then more silence. They stopped, within
reach of the bannister, and Pyotr leaned forward to peek around the corner, up the
stairs. Eva moved with him, and she eased closer, closer, trying to see…
A crazed man’s face stared her down intensely.
134
“You!” he roared.
135
25
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
“I said quiet!” shouted the man in a deranged voice. He reached between the bars
and grabbed Pyotr’s jacket, pulling him into the chipped wood banister with a jerk.
“They’ve found me!” hissed the man, let Pyotr loose a bit, and then slammed him
back into the columns, and then again, and again. Eva tried to get a hold on the man’s
fists, but he was moving too much … Pyotr started twisting, trying to get free.
“You can’t have me!” shouted the man. “The lions can’t have me anymore!” And he
suddenly bared his teeth and lunged at Eva’s neck. She flinched, but the railings were
too close together. The man hit his forehead and grabbed his face in pain, cursing loud,
uneven words to himself. Pyotr stumbled backwards against the wall and put his arms
up, ready to defend himself.
“Pyotr, let’s go!” Eva implored, backing towards the door.
Pyotr watched the man, his face cocky and sure.
“If your mum’s here, we can’t leave her,” Pyotr said, not taking his eyes off the man.
“I think we should fight for it.”
The man peered from between his fingers, blood dripping down his forehead where
he seemed to be clawing himself raw. He stared at Pyotr for a moment, as if something
connected, as if he remembered…
“Fight?” he said, his voice quiet. “Fight...”
“Pyotr!” Eva whispered, edging away. “This is a bad idea.”
Pyotr waved her off, started sliding around the stairs, his fists out, ready for
anything. When he got around the side of the steps, the bleeding man turned savagely,
136
shuddering. They stared at each other, neither moving, like a showdown between
hopeless fools.
“Get out now,” Pyotr growled to the man, his face so solid and imposing.
Eva was just about to say something when the man leapt off the stairs and slammed
Pyotr into the wall, both of them landing on the ground with a crunch. Eva stumbled
back and fell too, the world still not steady enough through the painkillers.
Pyotr held onto the man’s wrists with steady grips, but the beast was too
determined … three long gashes of red along Pyotr’s cheek made Eva cringe. She yelped
for him, but he didn’t react. He swung the beast away, then slammed his head into the
wall.
The man screamed out in pain, rolled on his back, scratched at his own face again.
Pyotr quickly got to his knees, tried to stand, but the man grabbed his leg and pulled,
knocked him down onto the steps, starting clawing up him ferociously. Pyotr was
reduced to smacking the advance away with his fists, grunting as he was scraped along
the belly.
Eva pulled herself up the wall, stumbling forward down the hall toward them. She
had the determination, but her body wasn’t playing along: her elbow landed weakly on
his spine, and he quickly changed his gaze to her instead. She skidded back, narrowly
avoided a red hand swinging out at her.
The movement gave Pyotr his chance: he planted a hand on the man’s neck and
crushed his head into the bannister so viciously it creaked. Then, not taking any
chances, he grabbed the tattered shirt with both hands and threw him sideways into
the far wall, and the man crumpled to the ground in a murmuring mess.
Eva pulled herself off the ground and came to Pyotr’s side, gripped his arms tightly
and pulled him to his feet. She put her hands in his shoulders and caught her own
breath a moment.
“That was stupid,” she said, her mind clearing faster after the adrenaline rush.
He nodded weakly, closed his eyes and winced at the cuts to his cheek.
“It’ll be worth it,” he said quietly. “If she’s here.”
137
The motion was so fast, Eva didn’t have time to react. The bloody man slammed a
gnarled elbow into Pyotr’s neck, and he collapsed down instantly onto the floor, and
Eva found herself face-to-face with a dripping red nightmare.
“Eva…” Pytor murmured from below, “Run for it. Run…”
The man snickered at her, at her being cornered. She glanced left, saw the door
they’d come through. The man was daring her to do it, to run, to give him some sport.
She returned her gaze to him, defeated. Sighed.
And punched him so hard in the face his nose broke.
As he stumbled back in pain, Eva made a run for it. She skidded down the hallway
and around the corner, back into the far room, where she lost her footing briefly and
bounced into a wall. She grabbed hold on the door frame and pulled herself into the
outer room, and slammed the door, pushing against it for a second before it shuddered
violently as the madman threw himself at it. Her bandaged arm seared with pain, but
she couldn’t let up.
Eva knew her position was tenuous at best, and the pained screaming from the
other side of the door made her push harder, keeping her safe, but also trapped in this
horrible little room. At least Pyotr was safe while she was being chased.
Then, a pause, a break in all the noise.
No pressure on the door, no sound at all. Eva pushed her ear against the wood,
trying to hear something on the other side.
It was quiet. Her own breathing was slow and shaky, and she tried to filter it out as
she searched for some sign from the other side. She heard nothing but silence.
Then she heard a scuffle, a thump, and scuffle, and more nothingness. She exhaled,
trembling now, and swallowed down some of the fear she’d been holding on to.
“Pyotr?” she called through the door.
Bang! the door shook, and the screaming returned, and Eva’s feet slid on the damp
wood floor and she scrambled to regain her footing before the man charged the door
again, pounding it violently.
She leaned into it with all her weight, turning to the side and shoving her shoulder
against the side of the door, gripping the doorknob so tightly her fingers were numb.
The man rammed the door again, again, and again, and then suddenly the hinges blew
138
off and the door flew in, pinning Eva against the wall and letting the madman surge
through.
She was so shocked by the door breaking that it took her a moment to get back up,
to push the wrecked wood off herself. The man had collided with the far wall and was
stumbling to his feet, too, but he was closer to the window, her only escape. Impossibly
far away. The man slowly straightened up, blood pouring out of the scrapes in his
forehead and his nose, and stared at Eva with irrational hatred.
“Lions!” he snarled, and lunged, shoving Eva back into the wall, fingers trying to
claw and scrape at whatever they could. She was overwhelmed, but swung her knee up
into the man’s groin with as much force as she could muster. It had little effect but to
throw them both off-balance, so they fell back onto the floor, the man atop Eva, still
trying to kill.
Behind her, Eva could feel the edge of the broken chair, and she tried to pull herself
up enough to get hold on it. She succeeded, but at the cost of a deep gash to the side of
her face. She inhaled at the pain, got a mouthful of the smell of the room again, and
gagged.
Her fingers slipped off the chair leg and the man put his filthy red hand over her
whole face, squeezed, and smacked her head back onto the ground, cackling, dripping
all over her.
Eva’s thumb pushed the chair leg in a bit, and her hand wrapped around it. She
swung it forward with such force it broke free from the rest of the chair. The wood hit
the man in the side of the head, and he screamed out in pain. He rolled away from Eva,
clutching his ear, snarling loudly and scuttling away into the corner.
Eva gasped for air, but her body didn’t like what it was getting. She felt lightheaded, groggy, but intensely alive. She managed to get to her feet, started towards the
door, back to see if Pyotr was alive. Just as she reached the door, she heard a noise
from behind, and swung around with the chair leg, hitting the charging man in the side
of the head; the wood and his skull cracked, and he flew sideways and onto the floor,
skidding to a stop in a pile, blood pulsing out from so many places she didn’t know
what she’d done.
139
He took a shallow breath, bubbling, and Eva dropped to the man’s side, tried to
feel for a pulse. She was crying, her head aching, her cheek stinging, and blood
everywhere.
“Eva,” came a voice from behind, and she jerked, looked round at Pyotr, hand on
the back of his head, groggy. His eyes were narrow and pained.
“He… he wouldn’t stop…” Eva stammered, her arms wrapping round herself, tears
still flowing.
“It’s okay, Eva,” Pyotr said, coming closer, offering her his arms. “You had to.”
From behind, the man exhaled a long breath, and then the bubbling stopped. Eva
didn’t look back, pushed her face into Pyotr’s chest and cried.
“Come on,” Pyotr said, lifting her up. “Let’s see. Let’s see if she’s here.”
Eva nodded, got to her feet, and paced up the stairs to the second floor, slow and
careful, watching her feet as she went. When they got to the landing, she hesitated,
kept from looking up. Pyotr nudged her forward, then took off and checked the various
rooms off the main area.
Eva looked around, saw the space, the half-normal living room that had been
picked apart over the years. A table and chairs, a potted plant that had withered to
nothing. A large painting of blotchy patterns on the wall. A simple rug, frayed at the
edges and rippled so it fit into a smaller space than it should have. A long red jacket,
black embroidered flowers at its base, was draped over a leather sofa at the far end of
the room.
“She’s not here,” said Pyotr glumly, kicking around.
“No,” said Eva, her eyes locked on the jacket. “But she was.”
140
26
STADIUM EDEN, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
The fence around the stadium was tall, chain link, rusted but unbroken. The
parking lot was covered with ashes and large metal containers, several workers milling
about in hazmat suits, pushing sealed carts around, ferrying the dead to their final
resting place. No one spoke.
At the entrance there was a guard with a machine gun, and he stared at the Healer
passively. He wasn’t there to keep people out, didn’t care if some fool wandered in. The
Healer watched him as he entered, studying the gun carefully.
Right next to the stadium doors was a small shack, the head office, and from the
gates to the office was a wide boulevard where the collection trucks rode. The Healer
made his way down the centre of that street, looking at the crates to his left and right,
and the workers around him froze and stared, anxious.
He stopped at the office and stared at the fogged windows, the steps leading up to
the thin wooden door. He took a step towards them when he heard the faint static of
his phone in his ear, and froze, looked around, and then up at the sky.
“Green Four, this is Home. What is your status?”
He started away from the shack, back the way he came. He spoke quietly, backing
against the concrete wall of the stadium.
“All is well,” he said.
Static.
“You are outside the city core,” Home said. “What is your status?”
“I am following a lead,” he replied.
Pause.
141
“You were following a lead last night, Green Four. What was the result of that
action?”
“The target was not at that location,” he said. “but I have solid information about
his whereabouts.”
“Your schedule does not allow for errors, Green Four. If you are encountering
difficulties—”
“I will meet my target before—”
“— we can have another agent at your location—”
“No.” said the Healer loudly, and the workers nearby checked him warily. “LS-411
will be resolved today. I will have results soon.”
Static, silence. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw a man dressed in a half-mask
heading toward him, directly at him, his stride aggressive. The Healer turned away,
waited on the reply. When it came, it was distorted and fragmented by the clouds
above.
“We… review… will recall,” they said before the radio cut out. The Healer tightened
his fists, trembling with anger. The man who had been approaching was close now,
confident and imposing; the Healer spun around, hit him in the chest, knocking him
flat on his back. He knelt down on the man, foot on a flailing wrist, and leaned in, using
his mask and inhuman voice to their fullest potential.
“Marta,” he growled, and the man twitched, terrified. “Marta!” he shouted again
The man nodded urgently, spoke in Czech, voice high and whining. The Healer let
go his hand and he pointed up, up at the stadium. He spoke more, but the Healer
ignored him, threw him to his feet, and shoved him towards the massive entrance
doors.
Inside were the furnaces. Giant corroded metal beasts sprawled across the turf,
their large vaulted doors lit at the sides by fire so hot it left no trace of their fuel at all.
Ashes landed heavily around them, covering the aisles in centimetres-thick horror.
Workers in heavy masks pushed wide shovels down walkways, clearing the mess, the
last hint of their friends and neighbours dumped into dustbins and carted away.
142
The Healer paused briefly before a large orange furnace, different than the others.
Older. On the side, beneath a Czech ID number, he saw the traces of a word he
understood, in characters so familiar they seemed foreign:
SHANGHAI
He trembled, turned away, and his hostage paused too as the other workers slowly
backed into the shadows and ran away. The Healer took heavy breaths as his suit
whined urgently in his ears, then forced himself to be calm, standing up tall, his grip
on the man’s arm re-tightening to the point of agony.
They continued forward, around another corner, until the man paused slightly,
pointed with a hesitant finger. There, in the distance, was a woman with a flimsy cloth
mask and a scarf tied round her hair, pushing a shovel down the aisle.
The woman noticed them, looked up slowly, then her eyes widened, fear, terror,
and she ran, back and to the right, disappearing behind a set of furnaces.
The Healer let go his captive and took off after her, his pack slamming against him
with every stride, but his pace quick and precise. He ran down the near side of the
furnaces until he came to a corner, peered around carefully and caught sight of Marta
dashing away. He tore off, his feet skidding a bit in the ashes, awkwardly dodging the
red-hot furnaces.
At the end of the aisle was a crossroads, a few pale shafts of light making it into the
clearing past the smoke and machinery, and he paused to check around him. No signs
of anyone, no hints of where Marta had gone. The ashes on the ground blew around in
a whirlwind, and soon even his own footprints had disappeared. He turned in circles,
watching, listening beyond the roar of the fires.
Nothing moved but the embers, dancing up and out of the stadium.
With a start, he ran back towards the doors as fast as he could, cloak flapping
behind him as he mastered his environment, picking up speed with every step. As he
looked to his right, he saw Marta across the way, running the same direction.
She caught sight of him and screamed, started running faster. The Healer fell
around a corner, slid in the ashes and landed on his knees. He skidded, putting out a
143
hand at the last second, involuntarily, and touched a furnace. His fingertips seared
with pain, and he bit back a curse.
He got back to his feet and started running fast again, came round the far corner
and turned left, saw Marta clearing the doors, out into the sunlight, quick but faltering,
wheezing in the impure air. The Healer closed the gap, came close enough, and then
slid along the ground beneath her, tripping her up, and she crashed to the ground.
His suit whined at his exertion levels and he struggled to calm his breathing, but
he kept moving, crawling up and over her, pushed his hand into her neck, holding her
hostage. Her eyes, dizzy and dazed, opened wide again, and she struggled, tried to get
free.
She screamed out for help, but he ignored her, pulled the mask off her mouth; the
falling ashes landed on her tongue, and she gagged, spat them out.
“Lewis Kwong,” he said.
She just stared, shook her head, terrified by the mask, he could tell. He gripped her
neck, squeezed, and she whimpered.
“Lewis Kwong!” he roared.
She started to cry, nodded to him over and over again. He eased up on her, placed
his burnt hand against her forehead and leaned in close. She met his goggled eyes,
hysterical and terrified.
“Lewis,” he said. “Kwong.”
And she nodded again.
He got to his feet, grabbed her by the front of her jacket and pulled her up too,
tossed her back onto her feet. He pointed back, out the gates, into the city. She nodded
weakly.
“Lewis Kwong,” he said simply.
“P-P-Panská,” she stuttered, holding up ten, then two fingers. “Panská dvanáct.”
He repeated the words back to her, his pronunciation imperfect, but she nodded a
terrified ‘yes’ to him, eyes wide with fear. He was so intent on the address that he very
nearly missed the man to his right, swinging a fist at his head. He stepped back quickly,
caught the arm and twisted it back and around, and the man fell to his knees quickly.
144
The Healer hit him on the back of the head with his arm, and he fell unconscious. Marta
yelped, backed away.
Three other men were closing in, ready to tackle him. He unsheathed his machete
and lunged forward, grabbed Marta by the hair and flung himself around behind her,
the blade to her neck. He pulled her head back and slid the weapon a bit to the side,
cut her slightly, and her friends stopped.
He shook his head to them, slowly, carefully, and watched them. The two of them
backed away towards the gate, encircled closely by the collection of workers, angling
and shifting, waiting for the right moment to strike.
The Healer saw the chain link next to him, the fields beyond, knew he was nearly
there. But then… the guard, the gun! He ducked quickly as the machine gun blasted
Marta in the neck and head, sending her flailing forward. Without pause, the Healer
spun round and embedded his machete in the guard’s neck so fast his dead body
bounced off the gate before falling.
The Healer caught the gun and reared about, aiming at Marta’s friends, who were
in shock at the sight of her lying on the ground, their own faces splattered with red. He
backed up carefully, gun never wavering, and passed the gate, out onto the road,
shaking his head slowly to those that would try and follow. None moved.
“Green Four to Home,” he said as his pace quickened along the main road. “I need
directions.”
“Green Four, what—”
“Panská dvanáct,” he interrupted savagely. “Make sense of it and tell me how to
find it. This ends now.”
145
27
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Crew put his hand over the heater vent on the dashboard, tried to feel the warm air
as the engine purred. The snow on the windshield was falling, sliding on slick ice. He
cursed, stomped his foot on the ground, and turned the air flow up to the highest
setting.
“Come on… work faster…” he grumbled.
His phone rang and he screwed up his face, holding it to his numb ear.
“Crew,” he said.
“Any luck?” came Sobotka’s voice.
“None yet. Just got back from the square, turned up nothing. Did you know the
clocksmith died?”
“No kidding. I bet the mayor’s having a fit. What happened to his security detail?”
Crew cricked his neck.
“I heard they were out drinking last week. Haven’t heard anything since. How
much you want to bet they get charged with criminal negligence over it? The son’s sick,
the daughter’s clueless… pretty soon, there’s no one left that can keep that thing
running anymore.”
“What’s it been, 500 years?”
“Something like that.”
Sobotka grunted something similar to disapproval, despair.
“What’re you doing now?”
“Just taking a break,” he sighed. “How bout you?”
“Interesting development,” she said. “I’ll tell you later.”
146
“Sure,” Crew said, felt for the heat again, still couldn’t tell.
“What’s that noise?” Sobotka pried. “Do you hear that?”
“Don’t know. Don’t hear anything.”
“Crew, you moron, did you break into another car?”
Crew rolled his eyes, turned the heat dial down, then all the way back up.
“I ran the plates, the owner’s been dead a year.”
“It’s still against the law. If a cleaning crew finds you you’re going to get in trouble.”
“Listen,” Crew said, looking out the window at the empty street, “those lazy
cleaning bastards haven’t been down this way for a long time. And I need this break.”
“Right,” said Sobotka, and the word was wonderfully loaded. Crew stretched his
legs, shifted in his seat and felt a spark against his knee. Two dangling wires
underneath the steering wheel dropped loose and the car went dead.
“Shit, hold on,” he said, threw the phone on the passenger seat and bent down,
tapped the wires back together and twisted them a bit to keep them joined. He grabbed
the phone, perched it between his shoulder and his ear, and felt for the heat again.
“Made me knock the car off.”
“Can you feel my regret?” Sobotka deadpanned.
“Oh yeah,” Crew grumbled.
“So you ready to come help me fix the Kolikov problem now?” she asked. “Or are
you still wasting time?”
Crew’s eyelids drooped halfway and his jaw clenched.
“I’m still wastin’ time,” he replied.
Then he saw something, out of the clearing windshield, through a space in the
snow… a figure in the distance… a head, dark brown, bobbing behind a snow-covered
van. Crew froze, watched carefully. The head ducked down out of sight for a second,
and then came back up, checking away from him, and then turning back again. Crew
clenched his teeth: a full mask wrapped round the head, no skin in sight.
“I’ll call you back,” he said, closed the phone, and quietly opened the door. He drew
his gun as he crossed the street with light-footed caution, came round the van in a rush.
“You! Don’t move!” Crew shouted savagely, gun darting forcefully towards the
stranger.
147
The man reacted immediately, dropped the metal case he had been carrying and
placed his hands up above his head. Crew moved in behind him, ready to fire into the
back of his skull, and kicked the case away. The man twitched at the sound, glanced
back at him, like he was sizing up his opposition.
Crew kept a safe distance, motioned downward with his gun.
“Get down on the ground! Hands behind your head!”
The man complied, got to his knees, put his hands to the back of his mask. He
didn’t seem to be armed. At least not obviously.
“Down! Down!” Crew repeated as the man paused on his knees.
“Don’t shoot!” the man yelled, his Czech heavily accented. “Don’t shoot!”
Crew walked closer to the man and kicked his shoulder, and he fell over into the
snow, but kept his hands over his head, obviously taking Crew seriously.
“I’m with the British government,” the man called as Crew circled closer. “I’m not
armed.”
“What’s in the case?” Crew challenged, keeping his gun very visible.
“Equipment,” the man pleaded. “for blood tests. Just for testing.”
“Where did you get that mask?” Crew asked, edging closer.
“It’s standard issue for—”
“Looks Chinese to me.”
“It is! We buy them from Beijing, but I’m British, I swear!”
Crew grunted, re-gripped his gun, nudged the man in the shoulder with his foot.
“So why the Healer get-up if you’re not Chinese?”
“Healers are guaranteed safe passage. It’s… it’s considered a safe cover—”
Crew laughed maniacally.
“Safe? You’ve never been this far east, have you? Any able-bodied Czech with a
sense of honour would kick a Healer’s ass in a heartbeat if he got the chance. Really,
really poor choice of costumes on your part.”
“It’s standard issue,” he pleaded, “in all black zone areas.”
Crew’s gun faltered a bit, he stepped back.
“Black?”
148
The man turned his head slightly, not moving his hands at all, checked Crew
nervously.
“Ev… everything east of central Germany is considered a black zone now.”
“When is that supposed to have happened?”
“T-two months ago,” the man stuttered. “At a meeting in Geneva.”
“So why’m I just hearing about it now, from you?”
The faux-Healer put his head down onto the sidewalk.
“They’re still trying to think how best to inform the public. They’re… they’re afraid
of civil unrest.”
Crew snorted, turned away briefly and put his hands atop his head, sighing loudly.
“Why? Just because they’re leaving us here to rot, so they can come in later and
‘start fresh’? Why’d that lead to civil unrest? That sounds like a great plan!”
“I can understand you’re upset, but—”
“What’re you doing here?” Crew said, re-training his gun. “Who are you?”
The man turned his head slightly to look at Crew.
“My name is William Carey. I work for the Containment Office in London. I’m…
I’m tracking a British national who was last seen living in Prague.”
“Who is he?” Crew said, his tone a civil sort of demand.
“I’m sorry, it’s… it’s classified,” Carey muttered.
Crew half-lowered his gun, took a tentative step forward. Carey didn’t move, stayed
still. Crew’s voice was quiet, angry.
“You’re here illegally. Tell me why I shouldn’t shoot you now. Give me one reason.”
“I’m here legally!” pleaded Carey. “Ask your Director of Public Safety! I’m due for
a meeting there in an hour, I swear!”
Crew shifted his weight.
“Sestak? Knows you’re here?”
“Call him. We’re co-ordinating efforts.”
Neither man moved for a moment.
“What will you do when you find this fugitive?”
Carey motioned to his case, looked back up.
“Test him, make sure he’s clean, and… then… then bring him home for trial.”
149
“And if he’s not clean?”
Carey paused.
“I have… I have an order of exile for him. He’ll be banished from Britain forever.”
Crew snorted a laugh.
“So he’s our problem?”
“We have a directive! It’s out of my hands! A directive to protect our citizens from
any dangers… even themselves.”
Crew nodded at this, put his gun away too, grunted angrily.
“Funny,” he said to no one in particular. “so do we.”
He delivered a swift kick to the back of Carey’s head, and could see he was out cold.
Crew nudged the metal case with his foot. It had a complex lock on it, which he spun
the numbers on casually, then picked it up, slammed it against a nearby wall, and
threw it down the sidewalk as far as he could. He lifted his mask long enough to spit
on Carey’s unconscious head.
He turned, took his phone from his jacket and rang Sobotka.
“Sorry. Thought I had something there,” he said, pacing away from the scene.
“Dead end?”
Crew glanced back at Carey, lying in the snow.
“Might be later.”
He kept walking, stopped in front of the car, the beautiful abandoned car. He
looked around the street, didn’t see anyone.
“You don’t suppose...” he began, but Sobotka cut him off.
“You can’t steal the car.”
“It’s more like borrowing.”
“You can’t take it.”
“It’s an Aston Martin, though.”
Pause.
“Silver?”
“In-dash GPS too. And it works.”
Pause.
“Park it away from the station, and don’t leave fingerprints.”
150
Crew smiled, snapped the phone shut and got into the car, gripped the steering
wheel longingly. The heat had kicked in.
151
28
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva turned the coat over in her hands, the smell of her mother still strong. Pyotr
stood beside her, frowning.
“I got her this coat the winter before I went to school,” Eva said quietly. “She said
the red and the black flowers made it look like she was the angel of death.”
“Nice,” Pyotr smiled.
“She wore it anyway. I think she liked being the angel of death sometimes.”
She felt around it, in the pockets, found nothing but tissues and fluff. Then, on the
inside breast pocket, she pulled out a folded fragment of a paper. It was filled with
numbers, split by dashes, spilling off the edge. She grinned at it, then flipped it over
and gasped. Pyotr caught the paper before it dropped out of her hand.
It read: ‘Rhodri,’ and a phone number.
“Is that…?” Pyotr asked
“Our old number, yeah.”
“Did your mother know Rhodri?”
Eva shook her head, sat down on the sofa.
“No, they never met. I don’t know how she’d have this number. We never called
each other or…”
Pyotr sat down next to her, took her hands in his.
“Maybe she was contacting him, trying to find out where you were? You said you’ve
been travelling a lot… maybe she got worried and was checking up on you.”
Pyotr sprang from the sofa, across the room to a small rotary phone, sitting in the
corner, dusty and cracked. He brushed it off, carried it over to Eva, set it on her lap.
152
“Maybe she went after you. Maybe she’s already out of town.”
“What’s the phone for, Pyotr?”
“If she went to Rhodri, the two of them might be looking for you.”
Eva took the phone, gripped it tight.
“That didn’t happen,” she said seriously, and put it on the ground beside her. She
flipped the paper over, looked at the string of numbers.
“What’s all that? Some kind of address?”
“It’s a note to herself. She writes in code to keep people from snooping.”
“What people?”
“Me, mostly,” Eva said with a smile, “Lists for birthday presents, stuff like that.
Letters-to-numbers, shifted on a rolling cipher. It’s complicated, but she really has it
down.”
“She’s pretty good with patterns, I guess.”
“Yeah,” nodded Eva, squinting at the paper, “Took me until I was seven to catch on
myself. Learned about my first laptop three weeks early, and I’ve been keeping my
codebreaking skills secret ever since.”
“So wait, you can read this?”
“Oh yeah, definitely,” she smiled, “It’s a bit tricky with the edge of the page ripped
off, but I’m pretty sure it says something like ‘Wednesday, five o’clock, Sestak’…”
“Dobroslav Sestak?” Pyotr hissed.
“It doesn’t say. Who’s that?”
“Director of Public Safety. Real hard ass. He’s the one who shut down all the city
squares, made the police his personal germ-killing army. He’s got more power than
the mayor, and he knows it.”
“So my mother went to him for what? As an advisor?”
“Couldn’t be. She was fired. Why would he meet with her?”
Eva nodded, rubbed her temple gently. The leftovers of the Tezocet were making
her so tired…
“There’s only one way to find out,” she said. “We’ll have to go ask him ourselves.”
Pyotr barely got in front of her, pushing her back with a pleading hand.
153
“Eva, wait, hold on! His office is like a fortress over there. There’s no way we’d get
in to see him, even if we weren’t on the run from the police!”
“He might know what happened to my mother, Pyotr!”
“All you have connecting them is this… this scribbled note that means nothing!
Eva, listen! I want to find your mum as much as anyone, but this is not the best use of
our time right now!”
She grabbed his shoulder tightly, looked into his eyes.
“I’m going,” she said simply. “With or without you.”
She started down the stairs again, holding her breath for fear of losing her resolve.
Pyotr stayed still a moment, then let out a deep sigh and followed her outside.
* * *
The gear they’d stolen from the storehouse at the park on Rašínovo nábřeží smelled
clean and crisp, like antiseptic and lemons. Eva fidgeted with the latch on the back of
her mask, pulling it tighter around her face until she could no longer feel the cold air
on the skin below her cheekbones.
Pyotr rifled through a plastic bag, frustrated.
“There’s only one glove in here. They forgot to pair them, the bastards.”
“You should go back and complain,” Eva smiled.
They paused at a corner near the old apartment building Sestak had claimed as his
office. They glanced around in turns, checking out the trio of armed guards by the front
doors, floodlights blasting onto the sidewalk like a fortress.
“See what I mean?” Pyotr whispered, “It’s not like they’re offering tours of the
place.”
“Maybe there’s a side entrance or something,” Eva said, “We’ve got to get closer.
Come on—”
Pyotr grabbed her arm, pulled her back.
“Not a chance,” he warned, “You’re waiting here. I’ll go see if there’s another way
in.”
“Is this chivalry?”
154
“No, it’s you looking so dazed that they’re going to know something’s up at the sight
of you. I can still pull off ‘casual’ if I have to.”
Eva nodded, patted him on the back.
“Keep the mask on tight, and don’t stare, okay?”
“What am I, an idiot?” he smiled back, then strode around the corner as if on a
midday stroll. In any other circumstances, it would have seemed natural.
Eva peered around the corner, watching as Pyotr closed the gap towards Sestak’s
building, hands deep in his pockets. He skipped off the sidewalk, down onto the street,
and started crossing closer to the floodlights.
“Hey!” shouted one of the guards, taking aim with a machine gun, “Other side,
kid!”
Pyotr skidded to a stop, held his hands up to show compliance, and moved back to
the far side of the street, eyes carefully away from the guards, who were watching him
cautiously.
Eva tracked him until he turned the corner a block away, then started walking back
to meet him halfway, breath streaming out of her mask in tense bursts.
Just as she spotted Pyotr rounding the corner ahead, the air filled with the sound
of bells… clumsy at first, then a slow, mournful tolling that echoed off the buildings,
drawing Eva deeper into despair.
“What’s going on?” she said to Pyotr when they met halfway down the block.
“The clocksmith’s son just died. People are freaking out.”
Eva glanced up as more bells rang out, the distant sound of weeping from untold
homes nestled away from this frozen hell she was living.
“They were really that loved?” she asked.
“The clock’s a symbol of hope to the city,” Pyotr said. “It’s irrational, but people
really care about that family. Nuts as he is, Sestak understands that pulse.”
Eva squinted, looked to Pyotr.
“Sestak knows them?”
“Knows them? They’re like his pet project. He’s going to have a hell of a time
finding a way to spin this mess. He must be in agony right now.”
Eva checked back the way she’d come.
155
“You said there was a daughter, right?”
Pyotr glared at her.
“Yes. Why?”
“How old is she?”
“I don’t know.”
“How old was the son?”
“I don’t know that either. Listen—”
“You know all the ins and outs of this entire city, but when it comes to the most
beloved family of all, you’re drawing blanks?”
“Yeah, right after I eat my stale wafer rations off the floor, I put on my tux for a
night out with Prague’s social elite. Nobody gets to see these people anymore. They
don’t leave home at all.”
Eva smiled to him, patted his cheek.
“Not usually, no.”
* * *
The guards outside Sestak’s building had their guns on her the second she started
towards them. They were not taking any chances, especially with a lone woman weepy
and stumbling, wearing no jacket in this weather.
“Other side!” the close one called, but she didn’t turn or slow down. He stepped out
onto the street, adjusted his mask and took careful aim at her head.
“Ma’am! Stay on the other side of the street!”
Eva looked up at him with horrible, teary eyes, her mask pulled tight around her
face, and choked down as loud a sob as she could manage.
“They’re all dead!” she wept, treading a fine line between melodrama and
authenticity.
“Ma’am, you need to back up right now,” the guard warned, taking a step back
himself. Eva slowed, stood there in the street, shivering from the cold.
“My… my father was the clocksmith,” she said staring into the sky. “My brother
just died. I need to see Dobroslav. I need to tell him… my brother, he left a message for
him.”
156
The guard squinted at Eva a moment.
“You’re the clocksmith’s daughter?”
Eva met his eyes, pushed as many tears as she could to the surface.
“Y-y-yes,” she nodded.
The bells in the air were stifling. Inescapable. The guard kept his gun on her, but
touched his earpiece, tilting his head away.
“I’ve got the clocksmith’s daughter here to see the Director. Says she has a message
from her brother.”
He heard something over the radio, glanced up at Eva.
“She said that too,” he nodded, easing his gun a bit.
Eva tried to bide her time with as authentic a way as possible, staring into the
clouds and praying for the soul of her lost family. It wasn’t as hard to do.
“Hold on,” said the guard to the radio, then looked at Eva sternly. “You’re Ana?”
Eva realized she had no idea what the daughter’s name really was. The guard
looked suspicious, untrusting. If it were a trap, she’d have no way to talk him out of it.
She wavered, let out a long, sad breath, met the guard’s stare head-on.
“Yes,” she said.
He watched her seriously as the wind bit cold across them both. His left eye
twitched.
She let her breath go, inhaled sharply, let her gaze wander down, down to the snow,
and started to cry again.
The guard watched her, wincing, then lowered his gun.
“Give me the message,” he said.
“I… I need to see—”
“Nobody sees the Director, ma’am. I’m sorry. Give me the message and I’ll let him
know as soon as he’s free.”
Eva shook her head sadly, inhaled deeply.
“It’s… it’s personal. I don’t think Dobroslav would want anyone else to—”
“Ma’am, I appreciate your concerns, but I’m afraid there’s no way you can see him.
No disrespect, but you’ve just come from your brother’s deathbed. I can’t take the risk
that the Director will catch whatever it is that killed your family.”
157
It was the perfect cue. Eva began crying loudly, fell to her knees, cupping her face
in her hands.
“Please!” she wept. “Please, it was his last request! I can’t ignore his last request!
Please!”
The guard grit his teeth, looked back at the building and put his hand to his ear
again.
“You’re getting this?” he asked quietly. “Yes. All right.”
He reached a hand down to Eva, touching her shoulder lightly.
“The best I can do is the clean room,” he said. “You’ll be separated by two sheets of
plastic, but you’ll be able to talk. I know it’s not what you want, but it’s private, and it’s
as personal as you’re going to get.”
Eva looked up with teary eyes.
“Thank you!” she gasped. “Thank you! That will be perfect. Absolutely perfect.”
158
29
PLATNÉŘSKÁ 110, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
“Are you sure I can’t offer you something to drink, Mr Carey?” asked Sestak,
pouring himself a glass of scotch behind his large, ornate desk.
“No sir. Thank you, sir,” said Carey, bowing politely, the stiff leather of his suit
creaking with every movement. “I’m afraid I can’t take the mask off to enjoy it.”
“Ah,” nodded Sestak. “Quite right. I apologize. But do you mind if I…?”
“Not at all, Director. It’s your home.”
Sestak smiled serenely, putting the glass to his lips, pausing to watch the absurdity
of the scene: this almost inhuman monster standing in the middle of a classic Prague
drawing room. Buckles and air filters met plush velvet curtains, and the result was
unpredictably obscene to his sensibilities.
“Shall we get straight to business? I have a call I must tend to soon, unfortunately
tight due to your late arrival.”
“Ah yes,” Carey nodded, rubbing the back of his head absentmindedly. “Again, I
apologize for the delay.”
“Not at all. But if you please, time is tight.”
Carey quickly brought his dented and scraped metal case around to his lap,
unlatched it with a few quick turns of the dial, and pulled out a mid-sized envelope
with both hands. It sounded like metal inside. Heavy pieces of metal. He carefully
placed it on Sestak’s desk.
The Director stared at it a moment, but did not move.
“What is it you’re after here, Mr Carey?” he asked.
“A British national living in Prague. Mr Daniels.”
159
“The Zemus fellow,” Sestak said ominously. “Yes, what of him? What’s he done
now?”
“Now, sir?”
Sestak grunted unhappily, swirled his drink.
“He’s an insufferable fool, that one,” he said. “Constantly second-guessing city
policies, sticking his nose where it didn’t belong. Why, once he tried to convince me to
keep the opera house open, despite all indications that it was a major infection point
for the city. He tried to bribe me to keep it open, the fool. Bribes are beneath me.
Offends me to no end when fools think they can buy away my sense of duty.”
Carey nervously glanced at the envelope on the desk.
“So Mr Carey,” Sestak said, leaning back in his chair. “What has he done this time?”
“I’m… not at liberty to discuss the details of his case, sir, as you know. But I can
assure you that his behaviour poses no risk to the city of Prague. Or its citizens.”
Sestak sipped at his scotch again, scratched the tip of his nose with a carefullymanicured nail.
“I’ve already granted you free reign of the city. What more do you need?”
“Well, sir… first of all, I would appreciate if you could convey my status here with
your local police. I had a small mishap earlier which has greatly… um… impeded my
ability to operate.”
“I’m sorry to hear that.”
“Nothing a good night’s sleep and some painkillers won’t help, I’m sure. But if you
could…”
“I will pass along the warning,” Sestak said, jotting down a note on a pad of paper.
“Thank you, Director,” said Carey, genuinely appreciative. “And also, if I may ask…
do you have an address for Mr Daniels on hand? The house we suspected him of
occupying is empty, and I’m afraid I’m running out of leads.”
“You’ve tried the place across the Charles, then?”
Carey sat up straighter.
“No, sir. Do you happen to know the—”
“Indeed I do,” Sestak said, scribbling an address on the bottom of a sheet of paper
and ripping it off for Carey. “Since my secretary passed last year, I’ve found I’ve a better
160
memory than I knew. Send enough bottles of wine to someone, and you remember
their address forever, I suppose.”
Carey got to his feet, hand out to shake, happiness showing through the mask.
Sestak accepted the hand, if hesitantly.
“Thank you, sir,” said Carey. “You have been a very great help to me.”
“It’s my pleasure, Mr Carey,” said Sestak, glancing down at the envelope again.
“Don’t forget your package, please.”
Carey quickly slid the envelope back into his case, snapped it shut and backed
towards the door, bowing like a fool in the presence of royalty. Sestak replaced his glass
on his desk and walked Carey out, patting him on the back jovially.
“One last word of advice, Mr Carey, if I may,” he said as they reached the exit out
into the hall.
“Yes, sir,” said Carey obediently. “Absolutely.”
“I would leave your trip across the Charles until tomorrow. It’s late in the day now,
and with the cold and the summer we endured here… and with your suit looking so
much like…” he trailed off, then smiled. “Well, I can’t imagine you’ll want to be seen
out in the dark dressed like that. For your own safety, naturally.”
Carey barely responded. His voice was small and weak.
“No, sir. Thank you.”
As soon as they opened the door, Sestak’s assistant rushed forward, notepad in
hand, clicking and unclicking his pen as if to punctuate his displeasure at the schedule
being thrown off-kilter. He bowed politely to Carey.
“Sir, if you please… one of our men will help you back to your accommodations.”
Carey was led by the arm down the hall and away. As soon as he was out of earshot,
the assistant began speaking in hushed tones to Sestak as they made their way back
down the hall.
“Was it a good meeting, Director?” he asked.
“Fine enough,” grunted Sestak. “Any news from the Golden Tree apartments? Any
more cases?”
“None reported, sir. I am still getting hourly reports, but it seems limited to the
fourth and tenth floors.”
161
“Excellent. That’s good news. Keep the ventilation shut down, and tell the army to
keep its position until I give the word.”
“And what of the press, sir? They’re asking about the barricade.”
“Tell them nothing for now. I don’t owe them anything. If we start torching — and
that’s if — release a statement detailing the facts. Otherwise, this is just a routine
quarantine. If anyone knew it was Nuremberg, we’d have a riot on our hands, and I
can’t handle one of those right now.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Any further word on the Healer?”
“Scattered reports, sir. Housing complexes in the south, Stadium Eden just
recently. A few deaths, but nothing actionable.”
Sestak growled, checked his hair in the glass of a painting along the wall.
“Call the Chinese ambassador and express my displeasure at civilian deaths in my
city.”
“Yes, sir. Certainly. Should I demand they recall the agent?”
“Gods no, man! Whatever you do, don’t upset them over this. I won’t have Prague
mentioned in the same breath as Kiev, not over a few fools with an inflated sense of
their ability. Nobody burns this city to the ground but me.”
“No, sir. Understood, sir.”
“Oh, and can you please remind the police that they’re to leave the damn Healers
alone. I thought it was well-established, but apparently not. I can’t control the
populace, but law enforcement is supposed to understand the law, at least.”
The assistant touched a hand to his ear, eyes darting left and right. Sestak began
adjusting his jacket sleeves impatiently.
“Is Sobotka on the line yet?” he asked.
The assistant blinked to attention.
“Yes, sir, but if I may… it’s confirmed that both Mr Kopecky and his son have died.”
Sestak stopped dead in his tracks, stared at the floor.
“Damn,” he breathed. “God keep their souls. Who else knows about this?”
“The city bells are tolling, sir. It can’t be long before it’s everywhere.”
162
“Damn and damn again. Prepare a press conference. We have to get ahead of this.
Have Dr Mueller check Ana Kopecky’s blood and get her over here for the cameras. We
need to show the city there’s hope in the face of tragedy.”
“Sir, that’s the other thing,” said the assistant haltingly, “Ana Kopecky… she’s
already here.”
Sestak paused, turned urgently.
“Here? Why?”
“She says she has a message from her brother. A personal message. For you, sir.”
Sestak nodded, loosened his tie and removed his jacket, immediately taking on the
air of a concerned grandfather: caring, compassionate, mourning with the people he
loved.
“She’s in the library?”
“Yes sir,” the assistant said.
Sestak rushed down the hall, dropping his jacket on a chair, and paused outside
the library door.
“Call the Mayor, have him declare it a day of mourning. Help him with the details
if need be. And tell Sobotka I need a progress report when I’m done here. If I’m not
out in ten minutes, remind me of the time.”
“Yes, sir.”
Sestak clicked open the door, stepping into a the dark library, windows sealed shut
and the only lights set to a dim glow, disappearing into the rich stained wood at all
sides. A sheet of clear plastic hung through the middle of the room, sealed to all sides
with thick tape. On the other side of the room, beyond the plastic, was a young woman,
standing facing away from him, breathing softly.
“My dear, I’m so sorry to hear about your brother…”
The woman turned slowly, mask dangling from her face, letter opener gripped
tightly. Sestak jerked back.
“You’re not Ana…” he gasped.
“No,” said Eva gravely. “But you and I still need to talk.”
163
30
PLATNÉŘSKÁ 110, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Sestak took a step back towards the door, eyes wide with fear. Eva pointed the tip
of the letter opener against the plastic sheet between them, pushing slightly, but not
breaking the seal.
“Don’t even think about calling for help,” Eva said.
Sestak eyed the plastic carefully.
“You’re here to kill me?” he asked, defiant.
“I’m here to talk,” Eva said. “But if you give me one hint of trouble, and I’ll cut the
seal and spit in your face.”
He watched the tip, then Eva.
“What are you infected with?”
Her face didn’t twitch.
“Wait and see.”
Sestak exhaled slowly, then nodded and walked to the edge of the room, grabbed
the arm of an old wooden dining chair, and pulled it in front of the plastic. He sat down
carefully, his expression calm, serene almost. He thought a moment, then looked Eva
straight in the eye.
“I suppose you’re Ms Kolikov,” he said.
Eva fought back a twitch in her face, grit her teeth.
“You met my mother,” she said.
“I was under the impression Inspector Sobokta had you contained.”
“I’m not easy to pin down,” Eva replied.
“I’d think not, or they’d have stopped your little killing spree in Germany.”
164
Eva pushed the blade tighter against the plastic. Sestak’s facade faltered, and he
nodded with a controlled anxiety.
“I met your mother, yes.”
“About what?”
He lowered his gaze, licked his lips.
“It’s a complicated subject.”
“Then get talking. Why are the police after her?”
“You should know as well as anyone.”
Eva pushed the letter opener through the first sheet of plastic, and Sestak’s eyes
jumped up. Now the second sheet was being pressured, and Eva’s face was dark with
determination.
“What did you meet about?”
“The last time I saw her was three weeks ago. A routine status update about recent
outbreaks and how to stop them.”
“You… you worked together?”
His eyes narrowed.
“Certainly you know this already.”
“Indulge me.”
“Yes, we worked together,” Sestak said, leaning back in the chair. “Your mother
was our WHO liaison, overseeing the classification and treatment of strains found—”
“Stop stalling. What happened three weeks ago?”
Sestak thought a moment.
“We were discussing a smallpox outbreak in Pardubice,” he said. “A minor affair.
She was reading the report, and her face went white, and she excused herself.”
“What was in the report?”
“Nothing of note. Two hundred casualties, well-contained, and there was no threat
to the city here.”
“You’ve followed up on it?”
“My dear, Pardubice is over one hundred kilometres away. I have enough on my
plate already. I don’t need to be adopting someone else’s troubles.”
“So that’s it? She just left? Then why did you send the police after her?”
165
“The police found their evidence quite independent of me, I’m afraid. If I’d had an
inkling of what she was involved in, I never would have given her access to our
containment practices. My biggest fear is that she can use my own strategies against
me now.”
“She’s not a terrorist.”
“You would say that, wouldn’t you?”
Eva nearly punctured the second sheet. Her grip on the handle was making her
hand shake.
“You think she was behind the outbreak in Pardubice?”
“By the way she reacted, no. She seemed genuinely concerned about it. Which
frankly makes it all the more stunning, knowing what she’d been up to all this—”
“Save your whining for someone who cares. If she didn’t make the virus, who did?”
Sestak folded his hands on his lap, paused a long while.
“When we deconstructed the strain, we saw it was signed by the authors.”
“What, actually signed?”
“In the code, yes. Incidental protein strands. Crude, but effective. They call
themselves ‘ex-facto’, I believe.”
“Are they local?”
“It’s impossible to say. I think your mother suspected they were Russian. She
rambled off something when she read the report.”
“What did she say?”
“I’m afraid I don’t speak the language. All I caught was ‘repa’, but still—”
“Where would she have gone?”
Sestak sat forward, brow wrinkled with bemusement.
“I would think you would know better than anyone,” he said. “Didn’t you have a
plan in case either of you was caught?”
“I keep telling you people! We have nothing to do with this outbreak! I’m an artist
and my mother is a hero! She saves people, she doesn’t kill them!”
He smiled serenely.
“We all have our tipping point,” he said.
166
Eva set her jaw, tightened her grip on the opener, and pushed it through the second
sheet of plastic. Sestak’s body went rigid, pressed back into the chair, and he met her
eyes again. She took a long, slow breath.
“Call off your dogs,” she said. “You’re wasting time hunting us. You’re going to lose
the city, and it will be on your head, not mine.”
He said nothing.
A knock at the door drew both of their gazes. Sestak turned back to Eva, anxious.
Her face betrayed no fear.
“Director?” called the assistant feebly. “Sir, it’s getting to be that time.”
Sestak opened his mouth to speak, but Eva shook her head slowly, twisted the
blade in the plastic so it made a perfect hole. Sweet air rushed from one side to the
other, and the sheets rippled from the change in pressure.
Sestak held his breath, his face twisting in an effort to stay calm.
The assistant knocked again, more urgently this time.
“Director? Is everything okay in there?”
Eva nodded towards the door, a slight smile creeping across her face. Sestak’s teeth
rattled, but his lips stayed sealed, his lungs tightening with pressure.
He doubled over, fighting to control himself, but it was too much. Panic gripped
him, and he bolted from the chair, toppling it, stumbling back towards the door. The
assistant fell back at the sight of his Director collapsing into the hallway on his hands
and knees, sweat pouring down his face. The old man gasped for air, wheezing with
every breath.
“Sir? Sir, what happened?” asked the assistant, peering back into the room. It took
him a moment to see the hole in the plastic, and the absence of the clocksmith’s
daughter.
“It was… Kolikov,” Sestak gasped. “Seal this hallway, quarantine everyone inside.
I want that air tested for everything we know.”
“She… she was infected?” the assistant asked, blanching.
“She said she was. I can’t trust a word she said, but I’m not taking any chances.”
“No sir. Should I have the men detain her before she—”
167
“Leave her. Inform Sobotka, and let her follow the trail. And warn her not to give
the leash so much slack next time.”
* * *
Eva met Pyotr back at the corner a few minutes later, eyes gleaming and a smile so
wide and frantic that he couldn’t help but look worried.
“You made it?” he said in disbelief.
“Not only that, I know where to go next.”
“Wait… you actually saw Sestak? And he told you what you wanted to know?”
“Not intentionally, no. But he mentioned she said the word ‘repa’ last time she was
there.”
“She was talking about Russian turnips? I don’t get it.”
“It’s not turnips. It’s Stepan. Stepan Krejci. An old friend of my parents, back when
I was a toddler. I couldn’t pronounce his name, so I called him Repa, and it stuck. He
must know something about what happened to my mother.”
Pyotr shook his head.
“But even if that were true, how would we find him? We don’t know where he lives,
and there’s no way to find out!”
Eva’s smile got even bigger.
“We’ll look the same place my mother would have: his office in the biology
department at Charles University. He was the head of their epidemiology department.”
168
31
PANSKÁ 12, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
The smooth carpet ran down the length of the main foyer, the floor so shiny the
Healer could almost see his reflection in it. Untouched, as if no one passed the
threshold anymore. Glimmering chandeliers hung on domed ceilings above, the
brightest lights he had seen in many months.
It had been a hotel once, this place, but the front desk was empty, left in pristine
condition by the last employee to leave. There was no building directory, no guest list,
nothing to go by. He started up the polished wooden stairwell, watching his
surroundings closely.
In the corners of some steps were white and yellow flakes, like a strong antiseptic
that wasn’t properly washed away. There were pots of flowers on every fifth step, as if
the smell of daisies could drown out the industrial-strength cleansing. The flowers
were new, so someone had been there recently.
At each door was a camera encased in a dark glass dome. At one room, a brown
paper bag sat outside the door, its bottom stained with some kind of grease. A room at
the far end of the hall had at least two dozen newspapers stacked before it.
By the third floor, the walls were decorated in fine wood panelling, accented with
classic-looking murals. The lighting was all finer, the bulbs all aimed at the ceiling for
a calm, subdued feel. He passed by a large mirror, and paused there, seeing how
foreign he looked.
On the fifth floor, the final change. Down the hallway and on the left was a simple
wooden stool, straddled by a large squarish man in a green military uniform. The man
169
was already watching the Healer as he reached the floor, but he made no move. He just
watched.
The Healer walked slowly down the hallway, but there were no other doors to
check. He stopped a safe distance away from the man, who was still watching him
passively. He had bright orange hair, and his uniform bore no stars, no
commendations, just two simple “U.S.” pins on each lapel, and the name “Shaw” on
his chest.
The two of them stared at each other for quite a while, no movements, as if in the
midst of a duel that neither would admit to.
The Healer slowly, deliberately, reached out a hand and knocked on the door.
Shaw placed a firm grip on the Healer’s forearm and squeezed. His green eyes were
not angry, just professional, and he shook his head slightly, as if his say-so would let
the Healer concede defeat.
The Healer kept his stare at the larger man, and with some strain, knocked on the
door again: one, two, three.
Shaw seemed to grit his teeth at this, maybe amused. Suddenly, he swung the
Healer’s arm down and away, and with the other hand pinned him against the far side
of the enclave, fingers wrapped tightly around the armoured casing on his neck.
The Healer moved fast, grabbing hold of Shaw’s arm, twisting it. The sudden
pressure made Shaw lose his grip, and the Healer pushed the arm down and
backwards, up behind his back.
The man barely reacted to the move, and with his other arm reached back and
grabbed the Healer’s chest. With a bit of a crack in his twisted arm, he heaved strongly
enough to break the Healer’s grip, and threw him across the hall and into one of the
murals that hung there.
The Healer regained his footing quickly, and Shaw cricked his shoulder, grimacing
at the sensation. The Healer made a point to not make any sudden moves, but his
opponent had no such concern: his right hand slid to his side and pulled his pistol from
its holster, swinging it up towards the Healer’s mask.
The Healer was prepared. He side-stepped, grabbed Shaw’s wrist and twisted until
her heard a crack, and then with his other hand caught the falling gun and threw it
170
down the hall. When he looked back up, it was too late to stop Shaw’s fist from hitting
him in the side of the head, and was spun round by the impact.
His suit whined a warning, his heart rate increasing, and he heard a constant
ringing in his ears. He backed up instinctively to give himself room to think. Shaw took
the time to diagnose his wrist, and seemed to write it off, letting that arm hang loose
by his side.
They watched each other for another moment, and then Shaw lunged forward, his
punch missing, and was caught with an armoured elbow to the neck, and then a swift
low kick to the legs that sent him sprawling.
Shaw landed on the crimson carpet and rolled to his back with some difficulty. The
Healer was already turned, ready for more, his cloak swung back and his machete now
clearly visible at his side.
The Healer held out his hand in a warning, and shook his head slowly, but Shaw
was too stubborn or honour-bound to give up. He got to his feet, his knees smarting
from the kick, and pulled himself straight, though his body looked ragged.
The Healer shook his head slowly one more time, keeping his hand out, but
adjusting his stance to be ready for the next move.
Then it came: Shaw grabbed the Healer’s outstretched hand and twisted, pulling
back. It would have worked, but it was predictable, and the Healer spun round, his
elbow finding its mark on Shaw’s nose. There was a loud crack and Shaw gasped, his
grip gave way, and the Healer kicked his feet out from under him again, grabbing his
wrist on the way down and pinning him on the floor with his arm twisted up behind
his back.
Shaw’s nose was bleeding on the carpet, red on red, his breathing rough and
bubbly, but he turned his head enough to see his attacker through bruised eyes. He
said something in a tired but vengeful voice that the Healer didn’t understand — his
English was worse than his German — and then started jerking about, trying to get
loose.
The Healer held him there for a minute, watching him fight uselessly.
With his other hand, the Healer grabbed Shaw by the back of the neck and pulled
him upright, then let go of his arm and let him turn around, limping and wrecked, his
171
face a swollen bloody mess. The Healer stood a safe distance away, machete in his
hand, ready. He pointed down the hall to the stairwell, then his weapon, and left it at
that.
Shaw watched silently; then, after spitting out a pair of teeth, turned around and
slowly creaked down the hall, his stride a sad imitation of pride. The Healer waited
until he was on the stairwell and out of sight before turning his attention to the door.
It took him only a minute to dislodge the handle and push the door open. The room
inside was unlike the rest of the building. It was grey, the blinds drawn with all the
lamps off, and the walls were stark and bare, like a home waiting to be lived in.
There were blankets across all the floors, and a large white sofa oddly-placed in the
middle of the main room, pointed at the windows as if the dirty shafts of light that shot
through were somehow worth watching. At the end of the sofa, the Healer noticed a
pair of socked feet lazily waving from side to side. Dancing to music no one else could
hear.
The Healer took another step forward, and heard a scraping, a metallic grind under
his foot, looked down. It was a spoon, rough and beaten, stained in the middle with a
dark substance, like a makeshift boiler. And there, another spoon. And another, and
mixed in between were used needles. Thin ones at that. The Healer navigated his way
to the sofa, careful to avoid stepping on anything dangerous. There he stopped, looking
down on poor Lewis Kwong.
He was old and exhausted, so thin he almost didn’t look human, and his skin hung
loose on his body, scarred and wrinkled from years of abuse. He was wrapped in a
military jacket, highly decorated, high rank, resting heavy on his frail chest. His left
arm was out of the sleeve, instead resting loose by his side, a tourniquet tied around
the middle, purple pocked veins bulging, waiting for more.
The Healer picked a small packet of white powder off the back of the sofa,
squeezing it gently between gloved fingers. Heroin, probably. He dropped the bag and
rubbed his fingers along the white upholstery.
Kwong opened his eyes slowly, blinking at the weak light to his left, and turned his
gaze to the Healer, pupils flushed wide. He didn’t react, but was watching carefully.
172
The Healer removed his black pouch and placed it on the back of the seat, removed
a vial and put it towards Kwong. With abrupt dexterity, Kwong moved his arm away
and into his jacket, and his eyes narrowed, judging.
He said something in English, and the Healer shook his head to it. He motioned
with his needle, but Kwong rolled himself to his side, and then sat up, wobbling, his
back to the Healer, and exhaled.
“Why you here?” he said in Mandarin, the voice weak and tortured. His accent was
heavy and his words very simple, like a very old child fumbling through the language.
“I not with… use… any illness,” Kwong said.
The Healer paused, seemed to think.
“You may be sick,” he said. “With a deadly disease. I must sample your blood now.”
Kwong shook his head, curled up a bit.
“My sick, all me. My fault.”
“That may be,” said the Healer.
Kwong turned around part-way, eyes narrow and pained, lips trembling with fear
or hurt or self-pity. “Then let me die,” he said, and he meant ‘alone’.
The Healer shook his head gravely, and Kwong winced. The Healer showed him
the needle, the grey display, what must be done.
“I must sample your blood, because you have infected others,” he said slowly,
hoping the meaning would get across. “We cannot cure them without this sample.”
They sat there in silence for a moment.
Kwong turned on the sofa, and put out his arm towards the Healer, and closed his
eyes tightly, as if he’d never had a needle before, and the thought of blood scared him.
The Healer filled a first vial easily, and as he was attaching the second, Kwong spoke,
his eyes still closed.
“Grandfather taught me language,” he said. “I never study big. Wish now I did. So
much to say.”
The Healer waited until the second vial was full and then switched to the third. He
didn’t speak.
“I am alone here, this city,” continued Kwong after a time. “I cannot go home. My
family… I cannot see. Too sick in Europe. All safe at home in America.”
173
The Healer nodded to show he understood.
“I am waiting to die,” Kwong said. “Can you know when?”
The Healer met his imploring eyes as the last of the blood was drawn. He slid it
into his device and let the tests run. As the characters flashed by, he lowered it to his
side, nodding slightly to the old man.
“I sorry for my faults,” he said, on the verge of tears now. “Can you… tell family
about me?”
The Healer didn’t respond, but looked away, then down at his diagnosis. He paged
to the next screen, then back.
“What is it?” Kwong asked, as the Healer was reaching for his blue pouch. Kwong
stood up quickly, spun round to face the Healer, defiant. “What is it?” he said again.
The Healer left his pouch where it was, lowered his hands to his side, bowed.
“You carry a deadly virus,” he said. “If you live, you will kill anyone you see.”
Kwong closed his mouth, gritted his teeth and the Healer could see the muscles in
his jaw clench beneath the sagging skin. He closed his eyes and nodded ever so slightly.
“It is over,” he said.
The Healer nodded, though Kwong did not see it.
The old soldier put his arm out again, a small trickle of blood wrapped round his
elbow from the earlier pricks. He took a long, deep breath, and opened his eyes,
squarely at the Healer.
Then, in an instant, his eyes twitched to the left and back, and the Healer heard the
faint sound of metal grinding behind him; he spun to the side as a loud crack rang out.
Kwong’s chest popped with a gushing red wound, and he stumbled backwards, onto
his knees.
Shaw was standing in the doorway, pistol out, a quick look of shock and regret in
his eyes as he realized what he’d done. The Healer was off-balance, but saw the gun
veer towards him, and ducked down towards the kitchenette behind him.
A searing pain ripped through his shoulder, and he felt the horrible sting of
antiseptic as his suit reacted to a bullet wound. He collapsed back around the corner,
sliding against the wall.
174
Behind the sofa, the life had drained out of Kwong, his eyes glazed over with shock
and confusion, and his mouth swung open and closed a few times before he toppled
backwards onto the floor. Shaw cursed loudly in a stuffed, nasally voice, and the Healer
could hear heavy footsteps as he marched forwards over the spoons and needles. When
the gun peeked beyond the corner, the Healer was gone, a streak of blood against the
wall heading into the kitchen.
Shaw turned himself with his back to the wall, the gun leading him, and slowly
edged towards the opening, following the trail. His breaths were slow and quiet as the
nose of the pistol edged a bit beyond the entranceway…
Before he could make his move, a crunch erupted beside him and his elbow was
crushed by a powerful blow, making his hand spasm and the gun fall from his fingers.
The Healer caught it ably, coming around the corner, right arm loose and useless,
his cloak dark and shiny where the bullet had passed. He left his machete punctured
through both the wall and Shaw’s elbow, holding him hostage.
He paused a moment, watching his prey.
Then, almost cruelly, he shook his head from side to side, and tossed the gun across
the room. The two of them stayed there another moment, the sound of Shaw’s blood
dripping in a pool below him. His breathing was getting ragged and urgent, and he
fought back a scream.
The Healer turned slightly, leaned around the corner into the kitchen, and Shaw
felt a sharp pain as the machete shifted in the wall. He scowled at the Healer, his cheek
twitching involuntarily.
Then, with a jerk, the machete came free from his arm, from the wall, and he had
a moment of levity before the blade swung back around and tore through his bare neck,
and he felt nothing at all.
The Healer paced back from the scene, reaching over the sofa, grabbing his grey
device from beside Kwong’s body. With shaky hands, he paged the screens, back and
forth, pausing at the last: “xFacto Emaciator 1.0”, it read. “3rd Generation Infection”.
He squeezed the device until the plastic creaked in his grip.
175
32
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva and Pyotr walked down the final stretch of road, the stately old building off to
their left casting a weak shadow over the snow. There were tire tracks in the street, but
no other hint of life for as far as they could see. The lights in the building were all off,
the pale facade ominous in the dim wintry afternoon.
They stopped in front, looking up.
“You sure about this?” Pyotr asked, weary.
“We’re close,” Eva said, shivering but calm. “I can feel it.”
They climbed the four steps up to the entrance, a simple set of doors framed in
weathered ochre paint. They were covered by heavy planks, hammered in tight. A
series of warning stickers were plastered across black paint, announcing the facility
was closed until further notice. Another paper, half-ripped away, warned the premises
was quarantined due to an outbreak of Battinger’s.
“This way,” Pyotr called from the right of the doors, where one of the tall windows
had been smashed in, giving them access.
Inside, it was as if the foyer had been spun upside-down somehow. Large, heavy
desks were upturned, chunks of plaster and rock were smashed on the coarse wood
floor. The walls were thick with black mould; most of the old yellow paint was chipped
or simply dissolved. A window somewhere at the back was letting in sunlight, but it
wasn’t nearly enough. The air had the texture of rotting vegetables, even through their
masks.
“You know where his office was?” Pyotr asked.
“No,” admitted Eva. “I didn’t see a building directory either. How should we look?”
176
Pyotr pulled open a door off to the right, nudging some debris out of the way.
“Door by door?” he offered, then lead the way in.
The room was empty. What furniture had been there was stacked in a messy pile
in the far corner, away from the windows. The floor was spotless, despite the dusty
atmosphere, but for that pile. Eva could make out a faintness in the wood floor around
it, like an entire layer of finish had been worn off by something.
“Look at this,” Pyotr said, rubbing a gloved finger down the wall. It was stripped
down to a thin layer of plaster, ripped apart by raw streaks, like thick claws had worked
it away. It was only up near the ceiling that the thickness returned, and with it, the
black mould.
“Somebody hates mould,” Eva said quietly, adjusting her mask. “Let’s keep
moving.”
Down a quiet hallway, past a bulletin board that still had notices about flats for
rent in town, they found a large auditorium, its modern desks ripped and beaten from
their bases, up and to the back of the room. To their right, a drinking fountain lay on
the ceramic floor, a small trickle of water pouring into a neat pool. Again, no sign of
life.
“This is going to take a while,” said Pyotr, surveying the wreckage.
Just then, a shuffle, and some wood fell over, far at the back of the room. Pyotr
moved closer to Eva, shielding her.
“Who’s there?” he called.
Eva’s heart beat loudly in her ears. She reached down to her left, grabbed up the
arm of a destroyed overhead projector, felt its weight. Her sprained wrist screamed out
at her, but she grit her teeth and kept a careful eye on the room.
“Hello?” Pyotr yelled, stood ready.
Then, near the middle of the room, up and away from them, came a waifish girl, no
more than twenty, her eyes dark with exhaustion, hair in filthy streaks down her face.
Her bare arms looked almost blue in the frigid air, and she hugged herself, twitching.
“Are you okay?” Eva asked, starting forward before Pyotr caught her.
177
The girl didn’t seem to see them, started climbing and sliding down and across
desks. She ducked her head underneath one, then reached her arms under, lowered
herself down, out of sight. They heard shifting debris, broken glass.
“What’s going on?” Pyotr called, moving himself and Eva further away from where
the girl had disappeared. “Are you the only one here?”
The girl reached a hand up on top of the desk, put her head half-above the wood,
shifted her gaze left and right, never looking at them. Her lower lip was chewed on and
scabbed, sharp teeth marks red and trickling.
“I can’t find it. Can’t find it,” she said, though not to them. “Can’t find it anywhere.”
“Can’t find what?” Eva asked, looking around.
“My eraser. I had an eraser. I brought it to class. I can’t find it. I swear I brought it,
I know I did!”
Eva and Pyotr exchanged wary glances. Pyotr held a pausing finger up to Eva, then
reached down and began pushing bits of broken wood around as if searching. Eva gave
him a warning look.
“Don’t…” Eva whispered.
“She might talk to us if we’re nice to her…”
“I don’t think—”
“Hey!” interrupted Pyotr with a loud call, “I think I see an eraser here!”
The girl’s eyes shot at them, wide and delirious. Her mouth snarled open, showing
browned and bloody teeth.
“Mine!” she screamed, and leapt, animal-like, down the desks, straight at the
scrambling Pyotr. She threw him against the wall, grabbed at his wrist and started
slamming it against the stonework savagely.
“Let it go! Let it go!” she howled, pushing his other hand away from her, snapping
at it with her wretched mouth. He grunted in pain, trying to force her off, but she was
too wild to stop.
“Hey!” Eva called from behind. “I’ve got your eraser right here!”
The girl turned viciously, throwing Pyotr’s battered hand away. She crept around,
hunched like an animal, trying to circle Eva, who held the projector arm loose by her
side. The girl wiped her mouth with her bare arm, leaving a trail of red to her elbow.
178
“Give me the eraser,” the girl said. “I lost it. It’s mine.”
Eva nodded slowly.
“I’ll give it to you. I will. Just tell me… where is Dr Krejci? Dr Stepan Krejci.”
The girl’s eyes opened wide, then narrowed quickly. She started looking left and
right again, like the prey and not the hunter. She seemed to see Eva again for the first
time, shot through emotions from happy to scared to angry in a second.
“Have you seen my eraser?” she asked, tensing her hands back and forth and back
and forth.
Eva re-gripped the projector arm.
“I’ve got it—” she began, and the girl leapt at her. She was ready: she stepped to the
side, swung the metal underhanded, catching the girl in the stomach. She collapsed to
the ground, coughing wildly, grasping at herself, her chest, wheezing.
“I need to find Dr Krejci,” Eva repeated, colder this time.
The girl looked up at her, eyes narrow and insane.
“I want my eraser!”
She spun around, trying to attack, but Eva hit her across the side of the head,
sending her sliding into the first row of desks. Blood trickled out of her temple as her
eyes rolled back in her head.
“Eva…” Pyotr gasped, running to her side.
“It’s always the same,” Eva growled, throwing the projector arm against the wall.
“Wherever you go, they chip away at your soul, bit by bit. I can’t stand it, Pyotr. I can’t
take it any more…”
Pyotr rubbed her back gently, then picked the discarded metal off the ground. Eva
shook her head at the girl, turned and left the room. Pyotr followed close behind,
checking ahead nervously now.
They came to another room, large and cold, its windows all broken, a thin layer of
snow spread halfway across the floor. All around, atop desks and thrown across chairs,
were the pieces of bodies of five terrorized souls. Their faces were scraped with deep
gashes, their eyes merely bloodied sockets. Arms torn from torsos, some seeming to
have died trying to crawl away as their legs were shredded behind them.
Eva choked back vomit, turned to Pyotr, who braced himself against the wall.
179
“Jesus…” he gasped. “Do you think… she did this?”
Eva couldn’t look back, just shook her head.
“I don’t know. I can’t look. Can you see… is my… my mother in there?”
Pyotr tensed, looked left, right.
“No,” he said. “The two women are too young.”
Eva took a deep breath of processed air.
“Good. Then let’s get out of here. This was a bad mistake. We’ve got to go.”
They were just past the threshold when the banging started: furious, mad
pounding. They paused, half-turned back, and heard it, faintly:
“Hey! Don’t go! Please, you have to help me! Please!”
180
33
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva and Pyotr rushed back into the room, and saw a refrigerated locker, off to the
side… a desperate face calling out to them from a narrow window at the side. They ran
to him, started pulling the door handle, but were stopped by a fierce slam against the
glass.
“No!” shouted the man inside, his cheeks hollow, lips blue. “Please, no. It’s
airborne. I need a mask first. Please tell me you have one.”
Eva looked to Pyotr, who shook his head.
“We only got two,” he said weakly.
The man inside pressed his forehead against the glass, seemed to be weeping. His
fist pounded the glass again, thin and wretched. Eva grabbed the projector arm from
Pyotr, nodded.
“Go back to the storeroom and get another,” she said.
“What?” Pyotr gasped. “Eva, even running that’s going to take me at least ten
minutes! And whatever did that—” he motioned to the shredded bodies, “might come
back and find you!”
Eva swung the projector arm back and forth lightly, smirked.
“I’ll manage.”
“Eva, please… this is insane.”
Eva pointed at the carnage of the room angrily.
“No, that is insane. This here, this is me putting some sanity back into the world.
Go get the mask. I’ll be fine.”
181
Pyotr shook his head at her, but took off into a sprint. She waited until she couldn’t
hear his footsteps anymore, then turned back to the man in the refrigerator. He had
tears in his eyes, was choking back sobs.
“Thank you,” he said loudly, his voice barely passing through the thickness of the
door. “I… I don’t know how long I’ve been in here. I’m so hungry, I can’t even…”
He trailed off, disappeared from view. Eva leaned closer to the glass, tried to see
in.
“Hey! What happened here? How did this happen?”
The man appeared back at the window, looking away from Eva, trembling.
“We made it,” he whimpered. “We all made it, and it killed us.”
“Made what? Who’s ‘us’?”
“The xFacto team,” he said, with an odd mixture of sorrow and pride.
Eva’s mouth dropped open beneath her mask.
“Wait, you’re a virus crew? The same one that made the Pardubice smallpox?”
He nodded.
“Yes, but that was a mistake. We don’t target Czechs.”
“You… what?”
“We… we’re the only ones standing between Russia and the complete genocide of
the Czech race.”
The words were thick with self-important propaganda, and it made her sick. Eva
put a gloved hand to her forehead, turned around.
“This is all you? These people, that girl next door… you made a virus that… that…”
“It breaks down the wall between reality and paranoia,” he said, proud. “It makes
you see things your subconscious dreads. It’s like a living nightmare you can’t wake up
from.”
Eva slammed an angry hand against the glass, and the man recoiled back.
“What kind of idiots are you?”
“We were trying to keep the Russians at bay! If they’re tearing themselves apart,
they’d have to leave us alone! It would save us all!”
“Yeah, until one of them finds out it was you, and launches a counter-attack into
Prague!”
182
“We wouldn’t let that happen!” he boomed defiantly, then collapsed out of view
again, and she heard sobbing. She sat at the other side of the door, her back to the cold
steel, watching the entrance where Pyotr had left.
There was a faint thump from inside the locker.
“It wasn’t supposed to work like that,” he cried. “It wasn’t made to be airborne.”
Eva frowned, looked up at the window. The man was staring out at the room, hand
dragging down the glass slowly.
“The vector was going to be a hospital in St Petersburg. Untraceable, but direct.
Aerosolizing it was never part of the plan. It’s too messy that way.”
“So what, you built it wrong?”
“No,” he sobbed. “There’s no way. Our incubator was broken, didn’t have the
aerosol option in the first place. Believe me, we tried to use it. If it’s airborne, it was
someone else, like that woman.”
“What woman?” Eva asked, getting to her feet quickly and leaning into the door.
“She came here… two days before Siman showed symptoms. She must have done
something… modified the code.”
“What was her name?” Eva asked urgently.
“I don’t know. Some doctor. I don’t know how she knew about us. Kept saying she
was looking for Dr Krejci.”
“Where is he? Dr Krejci, where is he now?”
“He died in the Battinger’s outbreak, before we claimed the building. Did… did you
know him?”
“Used to,” Eva sighed, distant.
“He was a great man. Taught me everything I know. I mean, to a point. I don’t
know how he’d feel about… you know… all this…”
Eva said nothing.
“We put a little tribute to him in all our viruses. A quote, buried with our name:
‘And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.’ He… he
used to write it on the blackboard at the start of each semester.”
Eva pressed her forehead against the door, felt her temples surge with pain.
“That woman, the doctor… what did you do to her?”
183
“Do? Nothing! Rayna was looking to infect her with something, but she took off
before we could. Probably because she’d hacked our code and didn’t want to be near
when things went wrong.”
Eva looked through the window, narrow eyes furious above her mask.
“I wish to god I hadn’t sent Pyotr off to save your life,” she seethed.
“You don’t know me,” he said, eyes darting down to see if the door was opening.
“You don’t have the right to judge me.”
Eva controlled her breathing, kept quiet.
“Once I get out of here,” he seethed. “I’m going to find that fucking bitch and dose
her with everything we ever made. She’ll die so many ways at once they’ll never know
what got her.”
Eva met his eyes, dead and empty.
She unlocked the door with a hiss.
“No!” screamed the man, trying desperately to pull it closed again, but Eva yanked
harder, swinging it all the way out until he collapsed on the ground, covering his mouth
with too-thin hands.
“Go on, hold your breath,” she growled. “I’ve got all the time in the world.”
He flailed about, trying to avoid the air, but it was no use. He dropped to his hands
and knees, squeezing his face up, trying so hard… He reached a frail hand towards her,
trying to grab her shin, but she kicked it away. It was too much, and he gasped a long,
slow breath, and broke into tears, bowing his head against the floor.
Eva watched him, cold eyes blazing, without a word.
Then he started to laugh. He slammed a fist against the ground, staggered to his
feet.
“Fine,” he spat. “Fine, whatever. You got me. Good for you. But I’ve got at least
twelve hours before I’m symptomatic, and that’s plenty of time to find you and slice
you all to pieces.”
Eva cocked her head, then took a swing at his left knee with the metal piping. She
heard a soft crack, and he collapsed sideways, back onto the floor, screaming madly,
clutching his leg as it bent the wrong way. Eva nodded to him.
“Good luck with that.”
184
He roared, flipped to his stomach, buried his face in his hand, panting.
“You’re fucking dead!” he cried.
“No,” she said coldly. “You’re dead. You and your xFacto buddies. You all die here.
That’s the end of it. I’ve had enough of this shit from you people, you and your kind.
Your nightmare virus won’t ever see the light of day, do you hear me?”
He looked up at her with wet, terrible eyes, half-laughing, half-crying.
“It’s too late for that,” he cackled. “The buyer’s already got the package. It’s on its
way to be deployed right now.”
“What?”
“Hell, it might be out there already.”
Eva held the projector arm up like a bat, threatening, adjusting her stance to
dominate him. He didn’t seem to notice; he rolled himself onto his back, staring at the
ceiling, laughing at nothing.
“Who is the buyer?” she demanded.
“Fuck you.”
She swung the bar down onto his shoulder, cracking bone, and he screamed, kept
laughing.
“Who is the buyer?” she yelled.
“Fine… fine, whatever…” he cried. “Have it your way. You’ll never find him. He’s
probably—”
But before he could say another word, a huge menacing form leapt down onto him,
shoving a blood-dried hand around his neck and slamming it down onto the ground
so suddenly it snapped, killing him instantly. Eva backed up quickly, weapon at the
ready, as the monstrous man tore his victim’s eyes out, squeezing them into his pocket,
then stroking the savaged face gently.
“Shh…” he said softly. “Quiet, I found them. They’re safe now.”
His face had a heavy beard, marked with dark red scratches along his cheeks, down
his neck, and all over his bare torso. His cargo pants were so thick with dried blood
they were almost black, and his bare feet were scarred with scabs and open wounds
from all the broken glass around the building.
“What?” he said suddenly, to the air around him. “Again? Where?”
185
He looked down at the body below him, traced a careful line down the shoulder, to
the left arm, and stopped at the elbow.
“No, that won’t do,” he mumbled, then pulled a worn scalpel from his back pocket.
Eva moved back even further, edging towards the door.
“This won’t take a minute,” he said, jabbing at the arm wildly with the scalpel, and
then began screaming as if he were the one being attacked. Eva was nearly at the door,
eyes never leaving the scene, when her heel cracked a bit of glass.
The monster looked up at her suddenly, eyes wide.
She made no move.
“Yes,” he said to the air, but looking straight at her. “Yes, she has ants in her too.”
Eva stumbled further back, ready to fight. He made no move to follow her, just
stared.
“Just stay back,” she warned. “Stay there and everything will be fine.”
His eyes shifted slightly, and it was clear he now saw her fully.
“I’ll get the ants out, and she’ll feel better,” he said, then bounded towards her like
a demonic gorilla, screaming as he made the final approach. It was so terrifying, Eva
nearly missed her chance: she swung at him, hitting his shoulder instead of his head,
sending him back onto the ground, and sending her to her knees from the momentum.
Her wrist burned angrily, and she lost her grip with that hand.
The monster quickly skittered to his feet and ran at her again, and she took off
towards the door, slipping on the glass on the floor, and only just reaching it before he
grabbed at her heel. He pulled, and she flipped over onto her back, dropping the
projector arm. He yanked her back in one, two, three painful lurches. She tried to kick
him off, but he was just too strong.
He straddled her, eyes utterly mad, and licked his lips.
“Those ants must go,” he said serenely, and reached back a bloodied hand.
Then his chest popped open. Once, twice, and the third time he collapsed
backwards into the glass, and Eva covered her ears, ringing from the boom of the
gunshots. She rolled to her chest, looked back, and there at the door was Pyotr,
smoking pistol in his trembling hand.
“I guess you don’t need the mask after all, huh?” he asked.
186
34
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Anouma stopped by Mr Vecera’s bed sometime after ten that night, checked his
chart, and the quantity of Pathenex he had left in his IV. He watched her weakly, a
smile flickering on and off, as if he were confused about his state of mind. She patted
him gently, nodding.
“You are still up, Mr Vecera?” she asked quietly, as most of the other patients in
the hall were asleep now.
He didn’t answer, looked away from her suddenly, then closed his eyes. Anouma
frowned, took out her penlight, turned his head back her way, and checked his pupils.
Fixed and dilated.
“Mr Vecera?” she asked again, calling louder this time. “Mr Vecera, can you hear
me?”
His eyes suddenly fixed on her, and he took a ragged breath.
“My… my granddaughter is drowning…” he gasped.
Anouma checked around herself, and he grabbed her wrist, held it tight.
“You have to help me, doctor. My granddaughter is drowning!”
She rubbed his chest roughly tilted his head, and saw he wasn’t looking at her
anymore. He looked as if he was about to cry, and then his heart monitor started to
whine below the bed.
“Blood pressure rising…” she said to herself. “Mr Vecera! Wake up! Wake up
please!”
He suddenly threw his arms back, sat up fast in bed, and began screaming a loud,
blood-curdling scream, and the other patients began to wake too, whimpering or
187
crying out in fear. Anouma leaned into him with her shoulder, held him down on the
bed.
“I need a sedative!” she yelled as the frail man fought her. “Sedatives and
restraints! Now!”
Two of the nurses on the floor took off, one towards the medicine locker and the
other to help Anouma. She pushed down on Vecera’s right arm with all her strength,
and his body shook up and down, flailing like a fish, as they fought to keep him still.
“Mr Vecera!” Anouma called. “Mr Vecera, everything is all right! You are safe!
Please calm down!”
But he didn’t hear her at all, he kept gasping, rocking up and down, back and forth,
trying to break free.
“Someone save my granddaughter!” he screamed. “What’s wrong with you people?
Hurry!”
The other nurse arrived with a long needle and a pair of long, blue straps. Anouma
tossed one to the nurse, and began to wrap hers around Mr Vecera’s legs. The nurse
did the same for his arms, but he broke free suddenly, clawed out at her, scraping at
her neck. She clutched it quickly, staggering back.
Anouma checked behind her, at the second nurse. She was pushing the meds
already. Mr Vecera started to falter, his motions becoming subdued, and he slowly fell
into a state of muttering semiconsciousness.
“You! Take her and clean out that wound. I want you both on high doses of
Pathenex now. You are off the floor until I say so. Do you understand?”
Both nurses nodded solemnly, headed out, past Dr Bastien, who was rushing down
the aisle towards Anouma. Behind him paced a man in a business suit, heavy mask
over half his head, arms gloved to the elbows. He wore a city badge in his breast pocket.
A bureaucrat.
Bastien checked the heart monitor quickly, the pupils.
“He is altered,” Anouma said. “and I have no idea why.”
“It’s not in the spec for his condition,” Bastien said grimly.
“Dr Bastien,” the bureaucrat interrupted. “Is this Dr Anouma?”
“Not now!” Bastien barked.
188
“Dr Bastien, if you’re trying to interfere with state business, I don’t care how senior
you are in this place, you will be—”
“I said quiet!” Bastien yelled, not turning around. He looked to Anouma, eyes dead
serious.
“What else could it be?” he asked.
“Maybe the Pathenex is having a delayed reaction?” she said.
“Unlikely,” Bastien said. “Has he had any visitors? Someone that might have upset
him?”
Anouma shook her head, thought.
“I do not think he has had any visitors since he arrived here. Maybe it is just… cabin
fever?”
Bastien nodded, looked around the room.
“We should get him upstairs somewhere, so he doesn’t scare the others. Find
Laroche and see what zone he can accommodate a new bed. I’ll—”
Then, several rows away, another patient began convulsing madly, his bed rattling.
“It’s too hot!” came a desperate voice. “Please open the windows, it’s too hot!”
Anouma and Bastien exchanged worried glances, and took off towards the woman
who was shielding her face with her arms. Bastien restrained her while Anouma
checked her pupils.
“Hello?” Anouma called directly into her face. “Hello, can you hear me?”
“It’s so hot! Help me! Help me please!”
Anouma looked to Bastien, who strained against the wild movements.
“What’s going on here?” squeaked the bureaucrat, backing away from them. “Dr
Bastien, I need to know what’s going on!”
“A new infection,” he growled.
“We need more sedatives!” Anouma shouted across the room. “Bring as many as
you can carry!”
The woman was sweating heavily, jerking this way and that, trying to get free.
Bastien risked a hand on her forehead, neck.
“She’s not feverish. She’s hallucinating. What could cause this?”
189
“I don’t know,” Anouma said, searching her memory. “sometimes Battinger’s B
causes sleepwalking, but—”
“This isn’t Battinger’s. God help us, I hope it’s not airborne.”
The bureaucrat took off, scrambling out of the room.
“We need to start everyone on aggressive Pathenex routines,” Anouma said,
checking around. “We must slow it down if we can.”
Bastien swore angrily.
“We’ll run out before we cover the room once over! Dammit, we should have
partitioned the floor better!”
Another nurse arrived with a handful of heavy needles, quickly pushed the sedative
into the woman’s IV. Bastien kept her down until she was safely subdued, when he
heard the gasp of another patient, a few beds over, starting to become aware of a
waking nightmare. He looked to the nurse, Anouma.
“Sedate anyone that shows even the slightest signs,” he said. “Mark the time and
repeat the dosage every hour. I want this controlled until we know what we’re dealing
with.”
The nurse nodded and took off, but Anouma was interrupted by her pager beeping.
She checked it, her face dropping.
“Adjobi…” she gasped. Bastien grabbed the needles from her, nodded.
“Go,” he said sternly. “We’ve got this for now.”
She smiled behind her mask, then ran fast, through the room, to the front stairwell,
and up to Adjobi’s floor. She tore down the hall till she came to his room, skidded
around the corner and stopped cold, eyes wide at the sight of the Healer looming over
her brother. At the sound of her, the Healer swung around, bloodied machete at the
ready, prepared to strike.
“What’s going on?” she gasped.
The Healer put his weapon away, staggered a bit. She saw blood on the back of his
cloak; he tipped to the right as he stood. He held out a vial in a trembling hand, and
shoved Adjobi’s head back against the pillow savagely.
“What is this?” he snarled. “It is not your vector!”
Adjobi shook, terrified, darted pleading eyes between the Healer and Anouma.
190
“I… I don’t know… I thought it—”
“This is a third-generation infection!” the Healer boomed. “You said this man
infected you, and you lied!”
Anouma started forward.
“Please, maybe Adjobi just—”
“Give me one good reason why I should not kill you right now,” he seethed,
ignoring Anouma entirely.
“I… I assumed he was the one,” said Adjobi, a bit of life coming back into him as
he pleaded. “We… we’d shared needles, and…”
Anouma gasped, stepping away from her brother, shocked.
“Adjobi, no…”
“I’m sorry, Fanta. I don’t know what I was thinking, I just…”
The Healer unrolled his blue pouch, pulled out a needle and tested it. Flawless. He
grabbed Adjobi’s arm with his thick bloodstained glove, and turned the veins outward.
“No!” shouted Anouma, and covered the arm, weeping.
“There’s another,” Adjobi said urgently. “There’s another. I didn’t think of it before,
but there’s another.”
The Healer looked at the needle, then seemed to fight with himself, and pulled
away, letting Anouma fall on the bed. Adjobi pulled up, sitting in stunned silence. The
Healer took another step back and gripped the syringe tightly.
“I have no more time for games,” he said to them, and the syringe dropped to the
floor out of weak fingers. He paced forward, Adjobi and Anouma both cowering on the
far side of the bed.
“You will give me the name now,” he said gravely. “Or I will burn you alive.”
They stared at him in shock, at the coldness in his voice, and Adjobi nodded. He
searched about the bed, then started nodding again, feeling up and down his sheets,
the wires attached to his arms swinging up and down like spiny wings on a spry bird.
He found a small scrap of paper and, with trembling hands, held it out for the
Healer.
On it was another name, another address. The Healer slipped it into a pocket, and
with his vision blurring slightly, shook his head.
191
“When you see me next,” he said darkly, “it will be your time to die.”
192
35
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
Eva collapsed on the sofa, pressed her hands to her face. The mask was so tight on
her, and she itched at the edge, groaning. Pyotr rummaged through the pack of
supplies he’d stolen from the depot, took out a half-litre aerosol can.
“Better stand up,” he said, shaking it. “We’ve got to sterilize everything before we
take off these masks. I’m not taking any chances with whatever those nut jobs had.”
Eva sighed, got to her feet, and spread her arms and legs so Pyotr could coat her
with the spray. It tingled as it hit her skin, gave her a second chill, on top of the cold.
When he finished, she sprayed him, careful around his eyes, shut tight.
They stood there, looking at each other.
“Do the room,” he said. “I want to try sleeping without this thing on my face.”
She nodded, proceeded to dose the entire room with antiseptic. He took out a
second can, shook it vigourously, and joined her, doing the undersides and ceilings
where she had trouble reaching. They finished, sweating and out of breath, and
unlatched their masks to breathe in the vile lemony air.
“Home sweet home,” Pyotr smirked.
Eva coughed at the taste. She sat down on the floor, legs crossed, then lay back,
staring out the window, at the stars. The clouds were disappearing, the deep blue sky
shimmering gently.
“So we’re done for the night,” Pyotr said, laying down next to her.
“Where’d you get that gun from anyway?” she asked suddenly. “They give those out
at the food depot?”
193
“No,” he sighed. “Saw a guard leave it at his station when I was heading out, figured
it’d be a good thing to have, given the atmosphere at the university.”
“Good call,” Eva said.
Pyotr yawned loudly.
“So where do we go tomorrow morning? Another insane asylum? Or do you want
to branch out a bit?”
Eva slapped his arm with a friendly hand, laughed.
“I don’t know,” she said, becoming sombre. “That was our only lead. I have no idea
where else to look.”
Pyotr sighed.
“Well, like I said: maybe she’s already left town. If that guy was telling the truth,
maybe she went looking for… whoever that buyer is. Maybe she’s in Russia or
something.”
“Not too likely. She might run into my dad.”
“They’re not close, eh?”
“Let’s put it this way… his sending me to jail wasn’t even close to the biggest reason
they got a divorce.”
“Ouch,” Pyotr nodded appreciatively. “So, if you don’t mind me asking… why’d you
hack a bank anyway? You didn’t get rich off it, I’m guessing.”
Eva winced, turned her head slightly away.
“It wasn’t about the money. Not really, anyway. I mean, I could have moved billions
while I was in there, but that’s not what it was about.”
Pyotr thought a moment.
“So if not money, then what?”
Eva sighed, propped her head up on her arm and faced Pyotr. She was distant,
reminiscing.
“My dad had a bit of a gambling problem. Nothing dramatic, not what you’d expect.
A little here and there, but it was always under control.
“One day, my mother comes home absolutely furious, because the bank had given
her a call, saying they were overdrawn on their joint account. He’d lost a mountain of
money on the wrong bet, and even with everything they had, it wasn’t enough to pay it
194
all off. All he had was this stock in a second-best security firm that was on its way out.
He was scared shitless.”
“So you… you what, you stole the money back or something?”
Eva closed her eyes, shook her head.
“I thought I could fix it. I worked at it and I researched and I found a way into the
bank’s systems through a stupid back door software glitch. Unpatched for years, it
turns out… if they’d looked at things, they would have seen it.
“I got in one night, thought I should just steal a little bit from every account in the
system. Just a tiny bit, and maybe nobody would notice.”
“Not likely. They’d see the pattern right away.”
“Exactly. Even a string of five transfers would probably get traced before I’d logged
off. But that got me thinking… I didn’t need the money, really. I just needed to set
things right. So I wrote a script that did a mad sweep through the accounts, moving
money around. A hundred dollars from one person to another, back and forth, all over
the map. I wasn’t doing anything they couldn’t undo, but when people checked their
balances the next morning, they’d be in for a surprise, one way or another.”
“Mayhem. Got it.”
“The bank had to issue a warning, take massive write-downs after the ‘gifted’
customers spent money they shouldn’t have had. It was all over the news, an
unstoppable scandal. Lawsuits filed, lots of firings. And the company that provided
their security, they got canned right away.”
“Oh hell, you mean—”
“Yeah, the company my dad invested in picked up the pieces, and their stock
surged.”
Pyotr whistled.
“Now that’s some fancy footwork.”
Eva lay back again, covered her face with her crossed arms.
“Not fancy enough. The cops traced me across ten proxy servers, figured out which
internet cafe I’d been in at the time, got a bunch of CCTV footage and nailed me a week
later. I didn’t even get a chance to deny it, they were so sure.
195
“And so I’m sitting there in jail, a fifteen year old girl, desperate for some kind of
news. Anything I can get. And my dad comes in — first time I’ve seen him in weeks —
and I ask him if everything’s okay with money. And he says everything’s fine. And
then… then he says he wants me to confess to the police, because it’s worse for me if I
don’t. And I believed him. I mean, why wouldn’t I?”
Pyotr said nothing, watching Eva speak, her voice trembling.
“He told them to try me as an adult. He basically forced them to try me as an adult.
He took the money I made him, and he took his girlfriend and he moved back to Russia,
and left me to rot in prison.”
“That must have hurt…”
“First six months I was there, it’s all I could think about. I wanted to get out, to find
him and ruin his life. Like completely. I knew I could… there’s so much you know about
your parents you can use if you try. I could have got him in such deep shit with the
wrong people, they never would have found his body.”
She took a long, rattling breath, stared out at the stars again.
“But then he sent me a letter, and it changed things.”
“Changed how?” Pyotr asked gently.
“He told why he’d had them punish me. It wasn’t vindictive or petty or anything
like that. He was afraid for me. He thought, ‘here is this girl I raised, and she’s become
some kind of monster who breaks the law like it means nothing’, and it freaked him
out. He wanted me to be better than I was, and he thought the best way to show me
the right path was to punish me like that. Show me the consequences for breaking the
rules.”
“Mean-fucking-spirited and messed up, Eva,” said Pyotr. “What a bastard. And
wrong.”
Eva shrugged.
“He was wrong,” she said. “But he was right, in a way. Or at least, I think he showed
me something I hadn’t seen. When I’d heard about his money troubles, I thought a
good and reasonable way to deal with that badness was to break the rules, to even the
playing field. It was justified to me. It made sense.
196
“And to him, putting me in prison seemed like a justifiable way to fix a problem. It
was evil, and I know it ruined whatever chance he had of making up with my mother…
but it made sense, you know? He thought it through, and that’s what he felt needed to
be done.”
“That doesn’t make it right,” Pyotr said.
“No, it doesn’t. But it taught me something I hadn’t really seen before: nothing
makes a wrong become right. These viruses, all the suffering they bring, it’s all just
some fool thinking what they’re doing makes sense. And it doesn’t. They took
something good and pure and fantastic and they used it to shit all over humanity.”
They lay there in the dark. Pyotr shrugged.
“See, if you told that to the cops, they might believe you’re not a virus-maker.”
She laughed, wiped a tear from her eye with her sleeve, sniffled.
“The fewer people that know that story, the better, I think,” she said.
“I think you’re wrong,” he said, propping himself up, closer to her. “I think you
hiding that side of yourself, it’s just dumb. I knew you how long in university? And
never once did you mention you had an inkling about computers. I thought you were
all about the painting. Could never figure out why you wanted to hang around with us
geeks.”
She sniffled, smiled.
“I was trying to steal you away from Maselle,” she admitted.
He laughed loudly.
“Are you saying you settled for Rhodri?”
She shrugged, avoided eye contact.
“Sometimes I like to think that was it, yeah.”
They lay there, their faces close, neither saying a word. Pyotr seemed to be thinking
something, took a tentative breath, then smiled.
“We should take Pathenex boosters,” he said, getting to his knees, digging through
the bag from the depot. He pulled out a pair of pill bottles, popped the tops open. He
handed a pair of pills to Eva, and a small bottle of water. His went down quickly.
“What’s the second one for?” she asked, shaking the pair around in her palm.
197
“It’s some kind of emergency immuno-booster, plus the regular Pathenex. Should
fight off whatever random crap may have made it into our systems this afternoon.”
Eva cracked open the water, swallowed both pills ably. She re-capped the bottle
and put it on the floor next to her.
“We should leave first thing tomorrow,” she said, avoiding his eyes. “You’re right.
My mom is probably gone already, and we’re just risking our lives by staying here.
We’ve got to get moving.”
Pyotr nodded.
“I’ll go steal some more supplies tomorrow morning,” he said.
She looked at him, shy, smiled.
“Thank you for everything,” she said. “I wouldn’t have made it this far without
you.”
He shrugged it off, knelt down next to her, rubbed her shoulder gently. She felt so
warm, she closed her eyes and breathed into a sudden wash of tranquility.
“It’s nothing, Eva. Really. And Rhodri—”
“Not Rhodri again…” she warned, pushing his hand away. “I’m so sick of Rhodri…”
He put his hand on her cheek, brushed the hair out of her face, spoke softly.
“I’m not telling you to call Rhodri,” he said. “I was going to say… having spent this
time with you… he was a fool to let you go. You’re worth fighting for.”
She smiled, but it was cut short by a kiss, and she found herself kissing back, harder
and stronger, her arms wrapping round him. She shuddered as he nuzzled her neck,
gripping his back with grasping fingers; and when her shirt came off, his lips on her
flesh, she didn’t feel the cold, but disappeared into a swarm of colours that flowed into
the night.
198
36
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 29
A capsule sat at the side of the road, perched on three short legs like a metal
grapefruit on a pedestal, a red beacon flashing intermittently on its top. From every
angle, a reflective biohazard symbol warned the curious away. But there were none to
see it this night.
The Healer sat shivering in the cold night-time air. A strap on his shoulder, readjusted round his arm, had stemmed the blood loss, but his arm was numb, hanging
weakly at his side. He kept his other hand over the wound, feebly protecting it from
the elements.
A crisp wind blew across the field beyond, and a swirling mist of snow kicked up
and flew into the moonlight. It was a desolate, evil place, but it was beautiful. The
shades of blue and purple in the sky pulled him up, into sleep, but he shook himself
awake when he felt himself fading.
The phone came alive, but it took a moment before he picked up the handset,
awkwardly pushing the antenna up once more, then let it drop by his side.
“Home to Green Four, what is your status?”
He took a slow, shaky breath before replying, his voice a forced kind of calm.
“Mission is in progress,” he said.
There was another pause. Longer than usual. Longer than necessary.
“Your armour is reporting a breach, Green Four,” came the reply, the tone
somehow sharper.
“A small cut,” he lied. “It has been contained.”
He heard the echo of his own voice in the silence and he looked into the sky.
199
“We are tracking your package,” Home said, then another break, like they were
trying to approach the obvious question with some kind of tact: “LS-411 has been
contained?”
The Healer’s good arm started to tremble.
“The sample is not LS-411,” he said. “A false lead gave me access to a new virus. It
is not part of my current mission, but—”
“Green Four, you must evacuate Prague as soon as possible. If LS-411 cannot be—
”
“I will handle it,” he interrupted, sitting taller. “I have enough time.”
Static. Then, silence.
“You must be out of Prague within twenty-four hours, Green Four.”
“I will be,” he said, slumping a bit.
Static again, and he heard some distant clicking, like typing or a pen tapping or…
he was falling asleep again, woke up with a start.
“Green Four,” Home said. “Your heart rate is quite low.”
He was having trouble keeping his eyes pointed in the same direction, tried
blinking slowly to keep himself in the present, but he was drifting to the right.
“It is cold in Czechia,” he said simply. He tipped over, his elbow catching him on
an angle, and the pain from his shoulder erupted again, making his blurred vision wash
blue, meshing perfectly with the blue in the sky.
“Indeed,” said Home, somewhere in his ears, in between white noise. “You…
mission not… recall… recall…”
“No…”
And then he landed softly in the snow, and the static overwhelmed him.
* * *
He was standing on the banks of the river in the days when a light mask would do,
and the water seemed very clean somehow, and he couldn’t remember if it had ever
been that way. Though he knew all that followed, he still had a sense of wonder, being
so far from home.
“Xiao Li!” called a voice, and it seemed constantly behind him.
200
It was her, that woman. He knew her name, but he couldn’t find it, and as he turned
round he was standing in a dirt field, the metal risers beyond him, his captain high
above them, and he was explaining their commission, their fates. Xiao Li couldn’t
understand the words, but he knew what they meant, and a part of him — a future part
— recoiled in disgust.
And then with a jolt, there he was, assembling the fence with his comrades, in the
dark of night, locking in a city that never knew why. And the fences seemed impossibly
tall to him, and the metal sharp as knives, and he thought he remembered it was so
cruel what they were doing, but that also felt insincere.
And now, again, at the fence, the survivors rushed, their faces so white with fear
when they saw the barricades, the guards, their masks, their horrible lifeless masks,
and Xiao Li was calling out to the others to stay close, hold the line, and he knew he
was firing into the crowd, and he willed his arms to stop, but they were beyond his
control now, and he wished he could die rather than see what came next, but he knew
he must see it again.
And there she was, the girl, the beautiful young girl with the wavy black hair,
watching him, asking him why. And though he tried to look away, he could see her, see
her hair burning, her poor brown eyes asking him why.
But then somehow it was different, and he was still warm, but there were no more
sounds, he heard only breathing. Soft, intense breathing, and he saw her eyes, that
woman; who was she? And she looked at him so closely he almost disappeared into
her, and her lips bit together so wonderfully. He felt her hands on his back, like a
thousand caresses brushing past as one, and dove into her completely, and the
sensation was swirling and wonderful and so wonderful he almost… almost couldn’t…
Couldn’t what? Couldn’t do this, no. He was standing on the border to Russia, his
cloak new and brisk in the spring air, the fresh flowers never penetrating his mask.
And though the sky was a glorious pink, yellow and blue, he never enjoyed it,
remembering how he’d come to be here.
He hadn’t told her he was leaving, had he?
What was her name?
201
And then, from the hospital, that poor wretch and his sister, begging him like the
girl in the fire, their eyes wide with fear. Fearing him, and he feared himself too.
Over and over, Xiao Li couldn’t help but stare, and he felt the coldness overtake
him again, and he wished he could remember the name before he awoke… But he knew
it was too late, that his job was not done, that he still had work to do.
202
NOVEMBER 30
37
KIESLINGSTRAßE 14, NUREMBERG, GERMANY
JULY 3
It was so hot the mask was slipping off her face, slick with sweat, as she sat in the
bedroom, sketching the quiet little house across the street, a massive tree throwing
shadows across the lawn. There was a breeze making the light yellow curtains flutter,
but the summer was impossibly dry and stifling, and the wind carried no relief.
She checked the clock again, waited until she saw a digit change. Two o’clock in the
afternoon, and she was sitting in bed, wearing a tank top and underwear, waiting. The
clock jumped another minute and she put down the sketchbook and the pencil,
lumbered over to the window and peered out over the lazy street below. A bead of sweat
fell off her nose and onto her arm.
Just then, a knock at the door made her jump. She ran to the bed, threw her
artwork to the floor, and sauntered over to the door, placing an inviting hand up the
frame, and creaking it open gradually to give Rhodri a warm welcome.
“Well hello there,” she said in her best sultry voice.
But it wasn’t Rhodri.
“Oh shit!” she spat, and ran back into the room, snatching a thin blanket off the
bed and wrapping herself quickly. The door swung open at the hand of a large and wide
man, heavy muscles bulging through his drenched short-sleeved business shirt.
“Hi,” he said in Russian, smiling in a way that he meant to be embarrassment, but
was something less. “Lookin’ for Rhodri.”
Eva shrugged, moved back around the bed, covering herself more.
“He’s not home yet. But. But he’ll be here any minute, so—”
203
“So I’ll just take a break, thanks,” said the man, and he reached outside and slid a
large cardboard box into the room, closing the door quietly. He pulled a folded
magazine from his back pocket and waved non-existent cool air onto himself.
“You got any lemonade?” he asked, cricking his neck. “Or just water? Anything
cold-like?”
Eva darted a look to the small mini-fridge they had by the window. She smiled
weakly.
“Cold bottled water?”
“Fucking awesome,” he exclaimed.
She made her way over to the fridge, carefully holding the blanket around her, and
pulled open the door. There were two bottles left, and she took the one with the dent
in the side, handed it to the stranger carefully.
“Thanks. You want any?”
She shook her head no.
“Suits me,” he said, and downed the bottle in one go. “I’m Dmitri, by the way.”
Eva was so shocked, she dropped the blanket, had to rush to catch it before it hit
the ground.
“You’re Dmitri? Wow! Oh, sorry, I didn’t know what you… I mean you never…”
“I’m the silent partner, yeah,” he said with a grin. “You oughta get some shorts on
Eva. Gotta be hotter in that blanket than anythin’ else.”
She nodded, backed away, snatched her shorts off the end of the bed, and slipped
into the bathroom. She heard Dmitri tromping around the room, the sound of him
shoving things around on their table, and the cardboard box sliding on.
“So no idea when your boy gets home?” he called to her.
She finished changing, came out into the room, pacing anxiously.
“None at all,” she said. “he’s usually home by twelve-thirty.”
“For your ‘afternoons off’?” Dmitri said with a grin.
“Uh…”
“Yeah, he told me you wanted those. Refused to say why.” He observed her
appreciatively. “But I’ve figured it out, just now.”
She blushed, backed into the other side of the room.
204
“I guess I should thank you for all the help you’ve given us for the last few months,”
she said. “I know Rhodri always says we’d have died of starvation if it weren’t for you.”
“Oh, I don’t know about that,” Dmitri said. “Rhodri’s a pretty smart kid. I’m sure,
between the two of you, you’d have found a way to make ends meet.”
There was something about the last part of the sentence that hung in the air, and
so neither one spoke for a moment.
“So what’s in the box?” Eva asked, trying to lighten things again.
“The usual equipment. Refills.”
“Refills? For websites?”
“Something like that,” he said, tossing the empty bottle to the garbage, a perfect
shot. “You keep in touch with anyone from Italy? Austria?”
Eva shook her head sadly.
“No, I didn’t get to go out much except to sell my art. Didn’t have many clients, and
fewer friends.”
“Read the news much?”
Eva frowned.
“I can’t read German. Can I… why do you ask?”
Dmitri shrugged.
“Things in the news, is all. Don’t worry about it.”
Eva was unsure. Dmitri checked his watch suddenly, wincing.
“Listen, I’ve gotta catch a train soon. Can you make sure Rhodri gets this box as
soon as he gets in?”
“Absolutely,” Eva said, the imminent departure releasing her tension. “I’ll tell him
you stopped by.”
Dmitri nodded.
“Do that. And can you tell him to call me? We need to chat, I think.”
“Of course,” she said.
Dmitri strode to the door, put a hand on the knob, then paused, turned back.
“Say, Eva,” he began, then lay silent for a moment, thinking. “You… you don’t help
ol’ Rhodri out with his work, do you? I mean, when you’re not paintin’ and such?”
205
“No,” Eva said, shaking her head slowly. “Rhodri keeps the work stuff at work, so I
don’t hear much about it. Why?”
Dmitri shrugged, scratched his chin.
“It’s nothing,” he said, his good humour returning. “Just didn’t want him dragging
you into the nuts and bolts, if you know what I mean. Work is work, and home is home,
as you say. I’m just thinkin’ ahead of myself here. Pay no attention.”
He smiled, waved, opened the door.
“See ya later, kid,” he said, then let himself out.
Eva stood there in the empty room, chilled despite the heat, and stared at the
cardboard box on the table. A thin layer of tape held the flaps shut, but it was already
re-sealed once, Eva could tell. She stood over, fingers dancing across the rough brown
surface, thinking.
The door was closed, no sounds from outside. She checked the clock again, then
back to the box.
Carefully, very carefully, she pulled the tape loose.
The first thing she saw was a stack of long and thin boxes, wrapped in words in all
languages, but one leapt out at her: “Incubator Refill”. She took it out, opened it, slid
out one of three long plastic tubes, filled with a milky gelatin, its cap a smooth brass
disc. She ran her finger down the side; it was cold, sterile, vicious.
She dropped it back into the package, closed it carefully, hands shaking. Next to it
was a folder, and inside was a data disc, marked with pen, scratchy and sloppy:
NUREMBERG-A1
CODE AND INSTRUCTIONS
Her mind in a haze, Eva put the disc down on the table, flipped through the papers
in the folder: reams of hex code, instructions in a syntax she didn’t understand… ten
thousand lines of them. She closed them, replaced them in the box gently, and
accidentally toppled over a small container with a bright orange lid.
206
She picked it up, and saw it was filled with a clear liquid. It had the same writing
on it as the disc: Nuremberg-A1.
“You fucker,” she gasped. “What have you done?”
She put the container back into the box, rifled through the rest and came to a red
folder which she tore open, and then staggered back at what she saw. Newspaper
articles, a huge array of them, printed badly, detailing death at the hands of viruses
that had killed thousands. She shivered as she saw the places, the dates… Modena,
Italy; Graz, Austria, Linz…
She turned round, saw the door behind her, saw the clock, saw the bed, and just
stood there, unmoving.
Outside, the first breeze in weeks blew by, and she heard the distant laughter of
children, a dog barking. She looked back at the box, at the orange container, the disc.
She grabbed them up, ran to the dresser, threw it open and pulled out random clothes,
scattershot, throwing them into her old backpack, shoving it full.
She found a framed photo of her and Rhodri, just after Italy, intertwined happily
in the countryside. She threw it against the wall, the glass shattering all over the bed.
At the door, she felt the weight of the orange-topped container in her hand, and
she looked at the bed, the shards there, and down at the poison she held. She wound
up, ready to throw… but then, then she squeezed it, shoved it into her backpack, and
ran out the door and away; never once looking back.
207
38
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva came back to life as the pale light came through the windows and crept across
her face. She rolled to her side, the blankets soft against her skin, the room still warm
as the heaters clicked off. Slowly, her head started to ache, a dull pain right behind her
eyes, and with it, the cold got to her. She slipped on her clothes, let the mask hang loose
around her neck, and ripped open a food packet from the depot the night before.
“Pyotr? You gone to get the stuff?” she asked the open air.
No one replied.
The sky outside was clear for a change, a soulless white and grey, and she wiped
the sleep from her eyes, trying to think straight. She thought she heard water running,
but the kitchen was empty. She shook her head, went back to the living room, stared
out the windows at the street below.
There were no footprints in the snow today, no trace how she and Pyotr had
arrived. A gust of wind blew some trash from the long pile in front of the building. A
yellow plastic biohazard bag, emptied of its deadly burden, floated ominously down
the street.
“Eva,” said a voice, and it wasn’t Pyotr’s. She got to her feet, turned around quickly,
backed to the empty window.
“Who’s there?” she called.
Still, no one replied.
She edged to the kitchen, found a knife in a drawer, and moved back to the window,
keeping her back to the wall at all times. She swore she heard scratching from the far
208
end of the room, but it was impossible… there was no one there. She could see no one
was there.
She checked out the window, back to the clean snow, shuddering.
“Pyotr… please come back… please…”
When she turned back, Rhodri was standing before her.
“Eva,” he said, his eyes raw, skin pale. “You left me…”
She shrieked, held the knife out at him, backed further, but there was nowhere to
go.
“Stay back!” she shouted. “Don’t come any closer!”
He didn’t move his feet, but he reached a poor, wretched hand out to her.
“Why did you leave me, Eva? Why would you leave me there?”
“You’re a monster!” she shouted.
“But we’re in love! You love me!”
“No!” she shouted, swinging the knife at the open air between them, covering her
eyes. “You’re a monster! Just leave me alone!”
When she looked back, the room was empty. Her heart skipped a beat, and she
lowered the knife, eyes darting left and right. The wind blew snow into the room, cold
blades on her face, and she flinched.
“Eva,” said Rhodri from right beside her.
She screamed, swung the knife out, missing by an inch, and scuttled backwards,
into the wall, and then ran full-tilt back to the stairs, slipping and tumbling down them
until she crashed to the floor, the knife sliding away. She made a mad scramble towards
it, grabbing it with her sprained hand, quickly scraping to her knees, and up, down the
hall.
She heard a thump from above, and a scrape, and the light down the stairs was
blocked by a tottering form.
“Eva…” called Rhodri, ghostly. “Eva, we need to talk…”
She raced around the corner, into a back part of the house, and slipped onto her
face at something slick on the floor. Blood. She got to her feet, bracing against the
walls, ran faster, down to a small closet at the end of the hall, pushed inside and curled
into the corner, knife pointing up and out, trembling, fighting off hysteria.
209
“Go away… go away…” she cursed. “Leave me alone, please leave me alone…”
The only light came from a crack in the door, pale yellow, right across her eye. She
reached back into the darkness, found a blanket on the ground, covered herself, trying
to make herself invisible. While she struggled, something fell out of the blanket, hit the
ground with a thump.
She froze, knife pointed at the crack in the door, looked down, up, and down again.
It was a small laptop, lying on the floor, its soft blue sleep light pulsing. She reached a
nervous hand out, turned it over right side up, and lifted the lid.
No sound from the hallway as the computer resumed its previous state. It took a
moment, hummed to itself, and then began showing a flickering video feed, distorted
and grainy. She stared at it a full minute before she realized what she saw…
The room upstairs.
The window, the snow-covered streets, the sofa, the sheets where she’d made love,
the wrapper she dropped on the floor…
Into the shot, stiff and awkward, walked Rhodri. He looked round the room, to the
window, then back to the stairs. And then, very deliberately, he looked straight at her.
She shuddered, threw the computer back against the wall, covered her eyes. When she
looked back, he was gone, but the computer had switched programs, bringing another
to the front.
A browser window, showing a discussion forum. She recognized the colours
instantly, read the banner with a gaping mouth: The University of Paris Alumni
Association. She reached out, pulled the computer closer, touched the trackpad and
scrolled down the page, up again. Notices of births, weddings, so many deaths. “Have
you seen Fréderick?” or “Remembering my dear sweet Anabelle”.
She clicked on one, saw a photo of a girl she’d never known, smiling in her school
colours, with an accounting of her death at the hands of the one of the western plagues.
The smile didn’t fit the words, and Eva closed it quickly to avoid the sight.
And there, at the top of the page, she saw something that tore at her eyes.
RHODRI TENANT READ THIS NOW!
210
Checking the crack in the door, she clicked through, read the short message:
“Rhodri: Loving your girl for you. Love Pytor @ Prague XOXO”. Below was a video clip
on a loop, and she bit back a gasp as she saw herself, naked on the sheets upstairs,
Pyotr over her, moving back and forth in the dim light. She began to shake, tears in her
eyes, hand covering her mouth.
“I’m sorry you had to find out like this,” said Pyotr from the doorway, hands in his
pockets and his face solemn and cold.
“I… I don’t understand…” Eva gasped. “W-why?”
He pushed the door open, further, and she re-gripped the knife, the tip aimed
straight at his heart.
“They’re after Rhodri, Eva. Not you. It was never you. You were just—”
“Bait? You used me as bait?”
“I had to,” he said, not pleading.
“Bullshit,” she spat.
“They gave me no choice! They said if I didn’t get Rhodri to Prague, they’d send me
back!”
“Send you back where?”
“Prison,” he said, dodging her glare. She pulled further back into the closet, kept
darting looks to the hall beside him. “I’ve been locked up since Maselle died. I almost
beat her doctor to death.”
Eva blinked, stunned.
“So all that about… about finding new places to live… you being at the police
station… that was all lies?”
Pyotr nodded meekly, ashamed.
“It was a set-up. They left the door unlocked so we could run into each other, escape
together. Sobotka’s been taking care of us. The pills were her idea.”
“Like throwing me onto my head?”
“Listen, we both freaked out about that. The last thing either of us wanted to do is
have you die over this. Hell, she gave me the gun when she found out about the
university. Hurting you is not what we’re about, Eva.”
“Yeah, not until you get what you want.”
211
He shook his head, sighed.
“I know this won’t count for much, but I… I’m ready to run away with you for real.
They can trace me, but I bet they won’t if we move fast. I got the stuff ready. I was
coming back to get you, to take you away. I was going to get out of here. With you. And
you’d never have to know about any of this.”
She aimed the knife at him, breathing deeply.
“You lied to me. You’re lying to me now. All you want is Rhodri. I’m bait, and that’s
it.”
“Eva, that’s not true! I’d take care of you! Not like Rhodri did. From what I hear,
he’s done some twisted shit, and he’s put you in the middle of it. I’d never risk you. I
wouldn’t launch a major virus strike into my girlfriend’s hometown.”
She narrowed her eyes, got to her feet, back against the wall. Pyotr did the same.
“Rhodri’s behind Prague-1?” she asked, weak.
Pyotr nodded, solemn.
“They think if they can get him here, he won’t launch the strike, and they can arrest
him.”
“So why not just ask me? Ask me to lure him? Why all this?”
He shrugged.
“Frankly, Eva, they’re not sure you’re not working with him. They couldn’t risk it.”
“And you? What do you think?”
He smiled at her, and it was almost like his old self was back again.
“I heard you last night. I know how you feel about all this. I know you’d never kill
innocent people.”
The knife lowered gently, then shot back up. Pyotr kept a safe distance, eyeing her
carefully.
“I just want my mother back,” Eva cried. “I want my mom and I want to get out of
this town and never come back!” Her eyes cleared suddenly, and she stepped forward,
jutting. “What did they do to my mother? Where is she?”
“They don’t know, Eva, I swear. They planted her coat upstairs with Rhodri’s
number to make you call, but they are as much in the dark about that as you. I swear,
none of us know where she is.
212
“Now listen, please. Your plan to escape was a good one. I’m ready to go, and I
know it’ll take time before you really trust me again. But we have to go now, before
Sobotka catches on…”
She didn’t lower the knife, kept checking for Rhodri around the corner. Pyotr
sighed.
“But Eva, really, if you’re not on board for this, I’m still going,” he said, and pulled
the gun from his belt, aiming it squarely at her chest. “So you’re going to have to make
a pretty big choice right now.”
He flicked the safety, shook his head slightly at her. She watched the weapon
anxiously, the knife swaying downward, but not out.
“What’s it going to be?” he said.
Just then, a second gun slid in, pointed at Pyotr’s temple, turned a bit to the side.
Eva gasped when she saw the face beside Pyotr, grim and unflinching.
“Put the gun down,” said Dmitri. “or I paint that wall a nice shade of fucked-up.”
213
39
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
When he awoke, the Healer felt cold; much colder than he should have. He had
trouble seeing in the darkness, but he noticed the brown spines of his tent above him,
and eased back, calm again. There were voices next to him, laughing, happy, speaking
in a language he didn’t understand. He turned his head stiffly towards them, pain
shooting from his shoulder.
Anouma sat close by, smiling and putting beads and jewels in the girl’s hair, which
shone a fiery orange and yellow, but black at the same time. The girl noticed him first,
her expression changing from joy to anxious observation.
Then Anouma looked over, kept her smile, and nodded to him slowly, reassuring.
She reached out to him, but he stopped her, catching her hand in his. Her skin was so
soft, and he caressed her fingertips with his thumb… gentle… gentle…
He felt a sudden panic, jerked upright when he realized: he wasn’t wearing his
gloves! He grasped at his chest, his arms… they were bare… his skin exposed, his body
in the open air… he threw his head back, gasped madly, but the oxygen was tight, and
he flailed against it, fought against it… but then… then the darkness swarmed over him
again.
* * *
Anouma was checking his wound the next time he opened his eyes, her face so close
to his, he had trouble telling if it was another dream. He moved his head slightly, and
she recoiled, scared of him, but not running yet.
214
His shoulder ached with a strange dull pain he couldn’t pinpoint. He tried moving
his arm to feel it, but realized his arms were strapped down… several straps around his
forearms, his thighs and calves. He was trapped. He panicked, started to struggle
against them.
“What are you doing?” he said, his mask making it hard to breathe. “Let me go!”
“You were flailing in your sleep,” she said, pushing a firm hand down on his bare
chest, and it calmed him somewhat. “You had nightmares.”
“They’re done now. Let me go!”
“You said the same thing an hour ago,” she warned, pushing him back. “Lie still or
you will tear the stitches.”
He obeyed, slowing his breathing, laying back again. The straps were tight and
thin, cutting into his skin, but when he relaxed they were much less obtrusive. He
stared up at the tent, the wind blowing it softly, and said nothing.
“You have lost a lot of blood” Anouma said, sliding closer again. “It was a gunshot?”
He nodded slightly.
“Your brother’s fault,” he said. “How did you find me?”
“I followed you as you left the hospital. You did not look well. I was not sure what
I… what I would…”
“I did not see you,” he said, worry strong in his voice.
“I do not think you saw much. You should not be alive, with all that blood loss. The
bullet did not do any major damage, but you will have to stay here for several days.”
“No,” he groaned. “There is no time. I must go by morning…” He checked the sides
of the tent suddenly, back and forth, looking for a crack, for a hint… “What time is it?”
he gasped. “How long have I slept?”
She pushed his chest again, and he stopped fighting, lay back again.
“The sun is still down,” she said. “But it would be foolish to go out there too soon.
You do not know what might—”
“I have a schedule. It cannot wait.”
She nodded, said nothing for a moment.
“Whose mission is it?” she asked. “Are you helping my brother, or yourself?”
He looked away, his arms tensing against the straps.
215
“Neither,” he said, bitterly.
She sighed, reached over and pulled the gauze off his wound, checking it carefully.
He groaned at the contact, but didn’t resist it.
“It does not hurt,” he said.
“That is the morphine. I found it in your pack.”
He stared at her, eyes wide behind his mask.
“What did you touch? What did you touch?”
“As little as possible. And I will keep the morphine, just in case.”
She sat back, pulled a needle from her pocket, stared at it guiltily. It seemed to
weigh more to her than it should have.
“Why are you saving me?” he asked, voice flat.
“I… I do not know if I am, yet,” she whispered.
They sat in silence again, both staring at the needle.
“You must be shot at often,” Anouma muttered.
“People fear me,” he said, his voice stale.
She nodded.
“That is your nature. You bring fear and pain.”
His eyes couldn’t leave the needle. He strained against the straps again, getting
nowhere.
“I do not bring pain,” he said, his temper rising. “The pain came before me.”
She looked at him again, her eyes were narrow, cold.
“Suffering comes before you,” she said, her voice filling with venom. “Death and
agony come too. But you bring pain. You kill their hope when you enter the room.”
“They should not use rooms!” he spat, and her face twitched. “It is cruel and
unfair.”
“Unfair? Unfair to whom?” she snapped. “The patient? or your sacred social
order?”
“Both!” he hissed. “Neither deserve that fate!” He would have grabbed her if he
could, but he was stuck there, a captive, awaiting his execution. His frustration boiled
over: “We warned them. We told them to outlaw the machines before the damage was
too great. They ignored us, and they are paying for their mistakes.”
216
“Those machines did so much good!” she argued. “The cure for AIDS—”
“They denied it to you! You defend them?”
“—many other great things as well! If it had not been for the incubators, where
would humanity be now?”
“Alive!” yelled the Healer. “We would find the same cures, without the damage
done! But their decisions left us with none! All my work, all my sacrifice, undone in a
moment. All because of weak resolve. I will not let that happen. If they will not take
care of themselves, we will do it for them!”
She stared at him, her mouth clenched shut.
“You cannot believe what you have done is right,” she said, and he focused hard to
block the image of fire. “You cannot believe you are not guilty of murder.”
He paused, tried to control himself.
“I am not answerable to you,” he said, and she gripped the syringe tighter, looked
away.
“No…” she said quietly.
He sighed loudly.
“And you? Are you a murderer?”
She met his eyes, then held the needle up before her, turned it slightly, as if
contemplating.
“I cannot tell. Is there such a thing as a necessary evil?”
He rolled his head back, slammed it against the ground, agonizing.
“Stop trying to be a hero! We are all killers, here!”
She shook her head slowly.
“I am not. Not yet. And I cannot tell… if taking one life to save another—”
“The hundredth is the same as the second. Or the first. Be done with it! Whatever
you wish, do it!”
She lowered the needle, but didn’t put it away.
“You are wrong. There is a difference between the one and the many. You are guilty
of far worse, and you know it.”
He barely flinched.
217
“Our hospitals,” he began, quietly at first, “they help broken bones and pregnant
women. Yours are like funeral parlours staffed by doctors. Our children wear masks
for colds, not to survive. You live in a pandemic day after day. To us, it is a distant
nightmare.”
She sneered at him.
“A nightmare black with ashes,” she intoned.
“We made sacrifices. We saw the future and stopped it before it killed us. It hurt
us far more than it hurt you to watch. It was the only way to survive. In eight months,
we were safe; yet you have worked for five years with no progress, no victories. Society
rotting from all sides. We contained our tragedy. You wallow in it.”
She looked at her hands on her lap for a few moments, her fingers unmoving,
curled slightly, and he said nothing, let her be. Her weapon rolled between her palm
and her fingers, gently.
“Society is not the sum of its people,” she said, talking more to herself than to him.
“It is not something you protect at the expense of its parts. You see a man with a
diseased leg, you do not kill him because the effort to save him is too great. You treat
him, you fight for him, you save him and if you cannot, you give him hope in his last
days.”
“Hope is a luxury you cannot afford,” he replied.
“You sound like someone I know,” she sighed.
“The older man? The doctor?”
She nodded.
“He thinks hope is dangerous, too,” she said. “Hope and trust.”
“He has seen things you cannot comprehend.”
“And what about you? How did you deal with those things he saw? You were there,
were you not? You saw what happened there—”
“An entire generation of medical genius, destroyed,” he interrupted.
“By a set of plagues so much simpler than the ones we fight now.”
“He learned from his mistakes,” he said. “Some of them, anyway. We did our best
to contain it. But without the social structures being enforced, it means nothing. Your
218
doctor saw that. Noble intentions count for nothing if you fight a blaze by spitting at
smoke.”
“This is not your battle—”
“It’s not your battle! You are not even from here! What did they say to convince
you to risk your life for them?”
“I could not let them die like this—”
“No? They had no trouble leaving you at the mercy of Tuberculosis, Meningitis,
AIDS… We would never abandon our allies. If we did, we would be alone in the world.”
“You are. You lost the last of your friends the day you set those towns on fire.”
He said nothing, turned his head away.
“You dream of them,” she said, guilty almost. “They haunt you.”
He looked back, tired.
“You know nothing about it.”
She nodded, turned the needle over in her hand again.
“There is enough morphine here to stop your heart,” she said, morose. “And I
cannot think of a reason not to use it.”
She met his eyes — or his goggles — with a sad stare.
“And it is wrong, is it not?” she asked.
He said nothing.
“You would kill my brother,” she said. “You would kill him and anyone else you
choose, all to keep a schedule. A schedule! These are people you are hurting, but they
are just names on a page to you. Another job to finish before the time is up.”
“I have no choice. It is my duty.”
“And what if you fail? What happens if you just refuse? What if you say: ‘Enough
is enough. I will not do it anymore’?”
“That is not my choice,” he sighed. “I cannot stop.”
“Why not?”
“I cannot fail them.”
“Why not?” she yelled.
219
“Because they would send me back home!” he boomed, fighting against the straps
and sending pain shooting down his arm. “They would send me back and I cannot go
back there!”
Neither spoke for a moment.
Finally, she nodded, carefully held the needle to his arm, and he felt the prick, a
warm sensation creeping up and through his body, and he gasped, closing his eyes,
letting it carry him. He felt the straps come loose around his arms, falling to his sides.
The pain slipped away, and he realized… slowly… that he was not dying.
He looked over at her, slow, uncertain, and she shot the rest of the morphine onto
the ground, threw the needle there.
“You do have a choice,” she said to him solemnly.
He said nothing, stayed still, watching her pull her knees up, hugging them gently,
resting her head there, quietly distraught.
“You will save my brother, and you will wipe his disease from the face of the Earth.
And then, when you place another check mark next to your list of accomplishments,
you can make your choice.”
She wiped a tear from her eye with her sleeve, took a shaky breath. Then, he found
himself reaching a hand out, touched her arm, and she didn’t recoil.
“This nightmare,” he said softly, “it ruins your soul.”
She choked on a sob, shook her head.
“My soul is broken already,” she said. “I have blood on my hands. Each one of the
lives you will take today, those are all my fault. I could have stopped you here, tonight,
but I refused.”
She looked at him, eyes full.
“I am not scared of hell,” she said. “I am terrified of the company I will have to keep
there.”
220
40
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva landed on the floor next to Pyotr as Dmitri paced in behind them, cracking his
knuckles. He stood in front of the door, feet apart, ready to keep the peace inside the
small, white-tiled room. A simple metal desk and two chairs sat along one wall, three
drops of red beneath them, stark against the overwhelming white.
“Now then,” Dmitri said, twitching his mask side to side. “Let’s get you two sorted.
Eva, I know. Hi, Eva.”
She said nothing, pulled herself into a ball and watched him.
“But this joker, all I know about him is that he was pointin’ a gun when I first saw
him. Which, at least in my books, isn’t the proper way to treat a lady.”
Dmitri winked at Eva, but she ignored it.
“I’m her b-b-boyfriend…” Pytor said, and Eva just laughed.
“I can think of at least two people who’d say otherwise,” chuckled Dmitri.
Eva’s mouth dropped open and she remembered…
“Where’s Rhodri?” she demanded, getting to her knees now. “What’s going on?”
Dmitri shrugged at her, scratched his cheek.
“You tell me,” he said. “I haven’t seen Rhodri in… well, longer than you, I think.
You passed along my message that time?”
“Not exactly.”
“Figures. Well whatever happened, he ain’t here.”
“But I saw him! Back at the building! He was chasing me!”
Dmitri cocked an eyebrow at her, glanced to Pyotr for confirmation, but Pyotr
seemed just as confused. Eva was running her hands through her hair, trembling.
221
“Eva, kid, if he’d been there, I would’ve seen him, believe me.”
She shook her head anxiously.
“I saw him. I know I did. He’s here, in Prague. He’s looking for me.”
Just then, there was a quick knock at the door, and it opened, slow and creaking.
The light from the hallway was musty and almost grey, but the silhouette there was
unmistakable. Eva screamed, backed behind Pytor, pointing madly.
“Liar! Liar! He’s here!”
Rhodri stood in the doorway, arms crossed, head shaking sadly. He was wearing a
black suit, no tie, but his hair was a mess as always, his beard looking sickly and
crusted.
“Eva,” he said solemnly. “You shouldn’t have run…”
She wailed, backed into the corner, covering her head with her arms. She felt strong
hands pulling at her, and she fought and kicked, trying to keep them off, keep the smell
of him away…
Suddenly, she was thrown onto the ground, on her back, hands holding her arms
at her sides, someone else pinning her legs down. She heard them talking, but she
refused to open her eyes for them, weaving her head from side to side, as if she could
escape by sheer force of thought.
“Eva, look at me,” said Rhodri.
“Eva, look at me,” said Dmitri.
“She’s… too… strong…” grunted Pyotr.
She pushed with all her strength, kicked Pyotr off her legs, and he slammed into
the wall. She twisted and fought, wrestling against impossible odds… but then she felt
a tight, strong hand around her neck, squeezing slightly, and she lay still, refusing to
open her eyes.
“Kill her, Dmitri,” Rhodri said. “She betrayed me.”
She cried, tried to swat him away, but he tightened his hold.
“I’m sorry, Rhodri…” she stammered. “I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean it…”
The hand on her neck eased up slightly, and she took a ragged breath.
“What the hell is she…?” Dmitri said, his voice distant.
“Shit…” gasped Pytor. “She’s infected. She must be infected!”
222
“With what?” growled Dmitri.
“I… I don’t know. It drives you insane, whatever it is, and—”
“Eva,” whispered Rhodri in her ear. “Eva, why won’t you kiss me anymore?”
She felt a cold hand run down her neck, her chest, and slip against her bare waist,
sending a chill up her spine. She kicked out, missing him, and he ran his fingers up
along her side, gentle, probing.
“Stop it!” she screamed. “Stop touching me! I hate you!”
“Did you give her a Pathenex stopper?” Dmitri said, fading into the distance, while
his hand was still on her neck.
“H-h-half of it,” Pyotr admitted. “I used Tezocet for the second pill.”
“Are you a fucking moron? That’s a hallucinogen on its own, not to mention the
immuno-suppression she must have going on!”
“I… I needed her asleep… I didn’t mean to…”
“Oh Eva,” whispered Rhodri in her ear. “What did you do? Did you fuck him? Did
you betray me?”
“No,” Eva gasped. “No, I’d never…”
“I saw you,” he breathed. “I saw it all. And I think you liked it.”
The hand around her neck loosened again, and she flailed her arms around, hitting
Dmitri, his stubbled cheek, but missing Rhodri every time. Dmitri knelt on her hurt
wrist, and she cried in pain, pushing her other hand against her forehead, weeping
uncontrollably.
She heard the sounds of the door opening, quick footsteps, the clink of plastic on
the ground. A light prick on her arm, just about the elastic brace, and then a cold,
metallic sensation flooding her veins.
“You’ll like this,” Rhodri whispered to her, his hand brushing the side of her breast.
“I made it specially for you.”
“Murderer!” she screamed, and had her head pushed back against the floor,
smelled onions, cologne.
“Eva,” said Dmitri, loud and clear. “Eva, it’s all in your head. I know you know that,
and I need you to focus. It’s all in your head. Rhodri isn’t here. It’s just me and the
fucktard. Nobody else is here, I promise you.”
223
Eva slowed her breathing, felt the depth come back to the room, the sounds less
threatening, and her heart rate slow. She didn’t open her eyes, but stopped crying.
“Y-y-you promise?” she whimpered.
“I do, Eva. Open your eyes. It’ll be okay.”
“I can’t…” she pleaded. “I can’t, I can’t…”
“You can,” Dmitri told her.
“I can’t. He’ll be there. I can’t see him. Please.”
“He’s not here, Eva. You know that. You know this disease. You know how it works.
Think past it, kid. It makes sense if you think past it.”
Eva stopped breathing, listened. She heard two sets of breaths, two sets of clothes
moving, two souls around her. She exhaled slowly, cautiously.
And she opened her eyes.
“All good?” Dmitri asked her gently.
It was him, and only him. No one else. No Rhodri.
She nodded, faintly, and he let her go. She sat herself up, rubbing her neck, taking
stuttering breaths. Pyotr lay against the far wall, white as a ghost, and the rest of the
room was empty. There was no Rhodri.
Dmitri patted her knee, got to his feet.
“That shot should keep you stable for an hour or two,” he said, dusting off his
trousers. “But if you start to see anything else odd in the room, let me know, okay?”
“Okay,” Eva nodded, catching her breath. “What did you give me?”
“A little cocktail we made that seems to suppress the symptoms,” Dmitri replied.
“Temporarily. And never as far as we’d like.”
“What do you—”
“I’m at a loss about what to do with your boy toy here,” Dmitri interrupted, darting
a mean glare at Pyotr. “Cause as I see it, he’s lied to you, he’s denied you vital drugs at
a critical time, he’s given you what might charitably be called a date rape drug—”
“It was for her head! She was in pain!”
“Yeah, and my gun’s primarily for pistol-whipping. Shut your hole. It’s not your
turn to talk.”
224
He turned back to Eva, then pulled his gun from within his jacket, dropped the
safety, and pointed it at Pyotr.
“Eva,” Dmitri said, business-like. “I don’t know what happened after he gave you
that pill, and I don’t wanna know. But since you and Rhodri were like family, I’m gonna
give you this choice. How’s he going to leave the room? Cause I’m fine with either way.”
Eva saw Pyotr, cowering in the corner, looking at her with pleading, desperate eyes.
She rubbed her bandaged hand across her head, tried to think through the pain, the
confusion. Pyotr said nothing, but mouthed words to her that she couldn’t understand.
Things she didn’t care to understand.
She shook her head, turned away.
“No more killing,” she sighed. “Just get him out of here.”
Dmitri looked to Eva, paused. Pyotr was trembling. Dmitri put his gun away, paced
to Pyotr and yanked him to his feet, dragged him to the door.
“Eva, wait!” Pyotr cried as he was forced against the wall as the door opened and
two large men in black suits came in. “Please! They’ll put me back in! Please don’t do
this! We can still get away! It wasn’t all an act! It wasn’t all fake—”
The door closed and Dmitri turned to Eva, his hands in his pockets, sighed.
“‘Wasn’t all fake’, he says,” Dmitri mused. “’s what my ex wife used to say.”
He smirked at his own joke, coughed and pulled a chair from the table, offering it
to Eva. She sat, tentative, and he hopped up on the table itself, lounging comfortably
in the cold, sterile room.
“So you feeling okay?” he asked her. “Just you and me in here now?”
She nodded, checked around just to be sure.
“Good. Cause what I need you to do, I need you to focus on.”
Eva frowned.
“What do you need me to do?”
“What you’ve got, Eva, we know it. It’s called Nuremberg-6. It’s nastier than you
know. And the kicker is, it’s infected some of our people. We didn’t see the signs until
it was pretty far advanced, and we’ve been fighting to contain it ever since.”
Eva scowled at him.
“How’s this my problem?”
225
“It’s your problem because the same things that’re happening to them, they’re
happening to you too. We don’t know what its end-stage is, but we’re not keen to find
out. We want it fixed, and we want it fixed now.”
“So what, you want to test the cures on me? I’m your guinea pig?”
He laughed, patted her shoulder, but she swatted him away.
“Hell no, Eva. See, our regular programmer has gone missing. I think you know
him.”
She scowled.
“Yeah,” Dmitri continued. “And without him, we’re kinda screwed. Or we were
screwed, until you showed up.”
“I keep telling people: I don’t know how to make viruses. And even if I did, I
wouldn’t help you.”
Dmitri gave her a dead look, scratched his chin under his mask.
“Even if it means you go bat shit crazy?”
Eva shuddered, remembering the sound of Rhodri in her ear. But she shook her
head.
“I won’t lift a finger to help you. You’re all murderers.”
Dmitri sighed, slapped his knees and got up off the table, leaving Eva sitting there,
alone.
“Fine,” he said. “I kinda thought you’d say that.”
He opened the door, leaned out and motioned, then looked back to Eva, shaking
his head.
“I get that you don’t want to help me. You don’t know me. If I asked myself for this
kind of help, I’d probably have trouble resolving to pitch in, too. But you don’t need to
do it for me. Or for you. On the other hand, you may want to do it for somebody else.”
“You can all fucking die for all I care,” she spat.
“Even her?” Dmitri asked, as a stretcher wheeled in, carrying Eva’s mother.
226
41
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
“Mama!” Eva gasped, running. She grabbed her mother’s shoulders tightly,
brushed her hair back, held back tears.
Her mother stared blankly at the ceiling, her face aged, worn, and two long cuts on
her cheeks half-healed. An IV strung up and out of her arm, saline dripping in like a
heartbeat. She was restrained, but she made no move to escape, and at once, Eva
started fighting with the straps, trying to undo them, let her free.
A large hand wrapped around hers.
“You don’t want to do that,” Dmitri said. “She doesn’t do well when she’s free.”
Eva held her mother’s hand gently, stroked it.
“What did you do to her?” she whispered.
“She’s got what you’ve got, but it’s much worse. We gave her one of those cocktails
about twenty minutes ago, and this… this is as good as it gets with her. She’s not really
conscious unless she’s full-on sick, and that’s not a pleasant place for her to be.
“I know you don’t trust us, that you don’t want to help us… but Eva, babe, if you
don’t fix this thing for us, this is going to be you in three weeks. This, or worse.”
Eva saw two suited men carrying in an incubator, setting it on the table and
plugging it in. She looked back to her mother, rested her head against the blank,
scarred face.
“I don’t know how to do it,” she cried softly.
“You keep sayin’ that, and it sounds just like Rhodri, back at the start. But he picked
it up real fast. And from what I hear, he wasn’t half the bright one that you are.”
227
“Don’t these incubators have some kind of… automated system? Something more
reliable than human trial-and-error? Anything else?”
“Could be,” sniffed Dmitri. “Might be a software patch somewhere I don’t know
about since the manufacturers have all been out of business for years!”
Eva looked to the incubator, eyes shot with tears.
“What if I screw it up? You really want to take that chance?”
Dmitri punched the incubator on, the screen flickering to life. He dusted off her
chair, turned it.
“Give it a go, let me know what you think.”
He nodded to her, and she reluctantly sat on the chair, touched the trackpad and
began investigating the incubator’s software. A large, simple window opened, happily
showing a stylized molecule, and welcomed her to the world of personalized bioengineering. A small alert flashed before her, giving her the “Tip of the Day”:
THE RESULTS PANE AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN SHOWS YOU THE OUTCOME OF YOUR
WORK AGAINST THE MOST COMMON BLOOD SAMPLES FOR YOUR GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION. TO
TEST AGAINST OTHER LOCALES, PLEASE CHOOSE “EDIT LOCALE…” UNDER THE “PROFILES”
MENU.
She clicked “dismiss”, got a lay of the land. Dmitri reached a finger in, pushed the
screen as he talked.
“I’m no genius, but what Rhodri told me is this: You load in a blood sample here,
and it does up a nice doodle of what the virus looks like. So let’s give this a go, load up
one of the samples we’ve got.”
He swatted her hands off the trackpad, navigated a few menus until a complex
string of different-coloured rectangles filled the middle pane of the screen, faux-glossy
and inviting, like a children’s puzzle game and not a matter of life or death.
“You seem pretty good at this,” Eva remarked. “Why don’t you find the cure
yourself?”
Dmitri smirked.
“Just cause I can print, don’t mean I can write. Look here… left side, this is your
toolset. There are, what, about a hundred different things you can drag around and
228
slap together. Me, I don’t know shit about this, so I just make the prettiest little chain
I can figure. So let’s try the red square, the blue diamond, and the… yellow
whatsitcalled.”
“Trapezoid.”
“Bless you. Now see…”
Dmitri demonstrated his new creation in the top pane, the background a calm sea
blue with animated bubbles creeping up. Almost pleasant. Eva sighed at it all.
“Now we hit this button here… ‘test’… and…”
Dmitri’s structure melded itself together, grew stems connecting some elements,
and then a set of arrows appeared between the top and middle panes, suggesting the
application of the first to the second. After a moment or two, new shapes and colours
fell from the middle pane into the bottom, and the window’s frame turned red. A
warning flashed on the side of the screen:
4 ALERTS REPORTED:
PATIENT DIES OF MASSIVE INTERNAL HAEMORRHAGING;
PATIENT SUFFERS SEVERE STROKE;
PATIENT MAY EXPERIENCE VISION LOSS;
PATIENT MAY EXHIBIT RASH.
Eva cocked an eyebrow, and Dmitri sighed.
“Believe it or not, this is better than usual. Last time it told me I’d successfully
constructed Ebola. That was a good day, let me tell you.”
Eva shook her head, hit the ‘clear’ button and Dmitri’s creation disappeared. She
pointed at the toolset, scrolling down the list, incredulous.
“I don’t know why you thought I’d be good at this,” she said. “This is a stupidly
complex program to figure out. Look at all these things… I don’t know what even a
fraction of these mean!”
229
“The incubators were made for pharmacists, I think. They kind of assume you
know a bit about medicine or something.”
“Which I don’t.”
“But neither did Rhodri. And what he told me… he said the only things you really
need to worry about are the first twenty shapes. The rest are compounds, and you can
live without ‘em. He said that when you really get down to it, this is like any other
program. Forget about the molecules or the blood samples or any of that crap, and just
treat it like what you know.”
Eva shook her head sadly.
“I’ll screw it up,” she said.
“Then it’ll tell you. And you start over. It doesn’t require skill, it just requires a
brain that can think a certain way. And yours does that.”
Eva sighed, moved a red square over to the compound in the middle, and watched
part of the structure crumble.
“Hey cool, real-time,” exclaimed Dmitri. “Didn’t know you could do that! See?
You’re a natural!”
Eva slammed her fist down on the desk, turned on Dmitri.
“What happened with Rhodri?” she demanded. “He was good! He was good, and
somehow you corrupted him, made him do this! What in the hell did you do to him?”
Dmitri placed a heavy hand on Eva’s shoulder.
“Less chatter. More working. We don’t have all day here. You’re due to start flaking
out in ninety-some minutes, and I don’t have an infinite supply of that cocktail if I’m
feeding three people at once.”
Eva hesitated, as if she might refuse, but then slowly turned back to the incubator,
put her hands on the trackpad, and began to work. Dmitri leaned back in his chair,
staring at the ceiling, arms behind his head.
Eva began by figuring out the effect of each shape in her palette. The red squares
chipped away at certain parts of Nuremberg-6, but left other by-products behind. The
yellow circles helped with others, but again, let dangerous elements fall. She tried
pairing a red square with a yellow circle, and it did eat up most of the usual suspects,
but then it left a shower of purple squares that did more damage than anything before.
230
After some work, she found a way to embed a trio of shapes inside a container,
which was attached as a subset of another element. This one lead to no fall-out, but it
made Nuremberg-6 split in two, each piece much more immediately dangerous than
mere delirium. She made a more complex compound, creating depths and depths of
embedded elements, trying to catch every bit, stop them from falling into the bottom
of the screen.
Dmitri watched her work, held his breath every time the machine processed
results, sighed quietly every time it returned a death sentence. He didn’t speak a word,
just sat beside her, observing.
Eventually the compound was too big to fit on the screen, and she scrapped it all,
starting with a single purple circle, and built more streamlined functions around the
core. The results were discouraging, but after a while, she started to see a pattern
emerging… she clasped her hands together, leaned back from the table.
“What?” Dmitri asked, waking from a stupor. “What’s wrong? What happened?”
“I’m close, I think,” Eva said, eyes fixed on the shapes. “I think this is close.”
“You’ve got four big chunks of it that kill the patient more ways than I can count,”
he complained. “I think you and me have different definitions of ‘close’.”
“Ignore that. Look at how it works… I’m breaking it up so this red, this blue… see?
They don’t stay together. They were causing the strokes. I’m splitting it up so the worst
parts don’t survive. Then all I need to do is beat those four compounds, and… and…”
“And we’ve got a cure?” Dmitri said, hopeful.
“I don’t know. But it’s the best I’ve got right now.”
“Eva!” called her mother suddenly, seizing up, trying to escape her restraints.
Dmitri and Eva ran to her side; he tightened the straps while Eva stroked her hair.
“Mama? Mama, can you hear me?”
“Eva! Someone find Eva! She’s all alone in the bath!”
Her mother wasn’t looking at her at all, she was in her own world, and it made Eva
shiver to remember the feeling. Dmitri checked her IV, shook his head.
“She’s coming out of it early. We need another cocktail.”
“Somebody help me! She might have drowned! Someone please give me a ride
home before she drowns!”
231
Eva turned away, back to the incubator. Dmitri opened the door, leaned out,
frowning. The hall was empty. He took his phone from his jacket, hit a button.
“Where is everyone?” he barked in heavily-accented English. “We need another…”
He trailed off, listening, then nodded.
“Be right there. Somebody get a new cocktail down to Kolikov. I’m locking them
in.”
He looked back to Eva, the door half-closed. She darted nervous glances between
him and her mother, who was starting to fight harder against her restraints, crying at
the imagined fear of losing a child.
“Sit tight,” Dmitri said. “I’ll be back as soon as I can. Just concentrate on the virus
and ignore her, got it?”
He didn’t wait for an answer, just ran out the door, locking it behind him.
Eva took her mother’s strapped hand in hers, stroked it warmly.
“Mama, I’m here. It’s Eva.”
“Eva, my baby!” her mother screamed. “She’s drowning, my baby! Why did he leave
her alone like that?”
“It’ll be okay, mama. I’m going to take care of it.”
Eva threw herself back at the incubator, dragging shapes in and out of the
structure, breaking bits, shattering structures, cutting away at the most deadly bits. Six
warnings, five warnings, four, and three… she had the thing on the ropes, but it kept
tossing out surprises, things she couldn’t decipher. She slammed her hand against the
desk, furious, and her mother whimpered.
“Die, damn you. Just die…” she sighed, lowering her head. Warm hands wrapped
over her shoulders, began to massage her tense muscles. She sighed happily, nodded.
“Feels good,” she said, looking back at the screen as the hands kept working.
She drew down another compound, tried it, and it worked. She gasped, elated, and
began to fight off the last two survivors of Nuremberg-6: fatal stroke and fatal fever.
She tossed shapes across the screen with amazing dexterity, the stress melting from
her body, her hands feeling warm for the first time in days…
“I’ve got you now,” she growled to the virus.
232
Strong arms wrapped around her shoulders, but she kept working, taking their
energy and using it. She felt breath on her neck, then the brush of beard, and a kiss on
her ear. She shivered, closed her eyes a moment, just a moment, let the kiss linger.
“You miss me,” whispered Rhodri softly.
“I miss you,” Eva replied.
A hand slid up, up around her neck, caressing her, fingers touching her lips. She
held her breath, her hands falling away from the trackpad, touched the arms, held
them there, turning her head to him, desperate, desperate…
“You need me,” Rhodri whispered.
“I do. I need you,” she answered.
“Then why,” he breathed, his mouth close to hers. “Why did you leave me?”
The hand at her neck tightened suddenly, fingers digging sharp into her skin, and
she convulsed, but he held her tight in his arms, keeping her there, locked in a killing
embrace, and he dug his nails into her skin, dragging up and down, then moved gently
to her ear, beard rough and scratching.
“You should have stayed,” he growled.
Eva trembled, her head up and her neck exposed, and she tried to see behind her,
tried to see him.
“You’re not real,” she cried. “You’re not here. Dmitri locked the door.”
“I have a key,” he hissed. “You can’t keep me out.”
“You don’t have a key. This is the virus. You’re not here.”
He laughed at her, moved around to her other side, still holding her tight, and bit
the edge of her ear.
“If I weren’t real,” he said. “Then how could I do this?”
She felt her neck released, and a sharp burn shot across her cheek. She grabbed at
it, felt the sting, checked her fingertips and saw blood. She gasped, squeezed her hand
into a fist.
“Why would you leave me?” Rhodri asked, moving back to her other side, his hand
tracing down her face, her neck, like a lover’s caress, but evil.
“You know why,” she spat. “It’s this. This and all those other viruses you made.”
He laughed, nuzzled close to her neck.
233
“You know I made them because of you,” he whispered. “I dreamed them up while
we made love.”
She shook her head, but he grabbed it, held it steady.
“You were my greatest inspiration,” he sang almost. “My muse. You made these
viruses. They’re yours.”
Eva’s hands hit the table, the trackpad, and then her eyes opened, but narrow.
“I didn’t make them,” she said cooly. “But I will destroy them. Just try and stop
me.”
She looked forward, despite his hands, reached hers to the trackpad and moved
the blocks around, shifting at a furious pace; breaking compounds, catching fall-out…
Rhodri couldn’t stop her, his arms unable to shift her determination, his hands
stroking her body top to bottom, trying to dislodge her concentration… She fought past
it, fixing errors and finally, finally, leaving the cure with only one side-effect.
“Fatal stroke,” Rhodri laughed, kissing her neck. “You’ll never beat me, Eva. You
never could.”
“You never saw what I can do,” she said, and drew a yellow rectangle over the last
compound, hanging it over, pausing. Her mother sang a quiet lullaby, Rhodri licked
her jaw sweetly, and she… she let the last piece fall.
The bottom pane glowed green, ran a notice saying: “Minor side-effects: raised
blood pressure”. Eva gasped, shoved back from the table, hands in the air.
“I did it!” she exclaimed, and her mother laughed out at the same time, but for
unknown reasons. She hit the ‘save’ button, then another marked ‘process’, and she
saw a vial of serum in the incubator’s central chamber slide into place and start to
churn slowly. She pressed her palms to her eyes, holding back a laugh of joy, listening
as the cure was made.
When she opened her eyes again, Rhodri was right before her, scowling.
“You bitch!” he screamed, and grabbed her head with both hands, scraping at her.
She kicked and pushed and fell back off the chair, scrambling back to the wall, and
Rhodri stormed her, grabbing at her legs, pulling her towards him, psychotic and
maniacal and so unfamiliar all she could was scream.
234
The door burst open suddenly, and Dmitri was there, flanked by two guards. He
looked to Eva’s mother, crying in her stretcher, and then down to Eva, and in a flash
he shot across the room, needle at the ready, and pushed her down onto her side,
jabbing the point into her arm, and she felt it, felt the rush again…
“He came back,” she gasped, face ground into the tile. “He came back. You said I
had hours. What… what happened?”
Dmitri kept her there, but his lock was almost gentle.
“I don’t know,” he said. “Might be the Tezocet again, or the damn thing might be
mutating as it spreads.”
Eva nodded as best she could, looked forward and saw Rhodri there, lying on the
ground with her, his hand stroking her cheek.
“Shh,” he said, smiling. “Don’t worry. It’ll be okay.”
Eva looked away from him, grunted.
“I did it,” she said. “I broke the virus. Check the machine.”
Dmitri shook, looked back, then leaned in to Eva.
“You still see him?” he asked.
Eva looked across the room. Rhodri licked his lips at her.
“No,” she lied. “No, he’s gone.”
Dmitri got up quickly, moved to the incubator and checked the progress bar as it
crept across the screen. It chimed happily, and the serum tube rotated around, then
emptied itself into a small container at the base of the machine. An orange cap
attached, and with a hiss, the work was done. Dmitri picked it up as if it were the most
valuable thing in the world.
“I’ve got to go use this,” he said to Eva, pocketing it. “You stay put.”
“Go? Wait, I thought this was for my mother! You said I was helping my mother!”
Dmitri shrugged, the door half-closed.
“You are,” he said. “But she don’t pay my bills. So she can wait a bit. The both of
you can.”
And he closed the door, leaving her alone with her comatose mother and the
ghostly Rhodri, who watched her hungrily from the corner.
235
42
MOTOL HOSPITAL, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Crew was on his way in to the hospital when a pair of nurses, masks clutched to
their faces, ran out past him, screaming. He watched them go, curious, then shrugged
and continued inside.
To his left, the large heavy doors to the treatment area were being locked shut, an
old man in a blue hospital uniform wrapping yellow tape across the handles and to the
frame. The echoes of hundreds of screams seeped through the cracks. Crew motioned
to the tape, cleared his throat.
“What’s up with the panic?” he called, and the old man turned with a start, his
mask too tight on his face.
“Outbreak,” he gasped. “Something terrible. The whole floor has it, and two of the
nurses. We’re quarantining everyone. City is bringing in the army.”
Crew crossed his arms, made a face.
“Who started it?”
The old man tried to run past, but Crew caught him by the sleeve, swung him
around.
“Please!” cried the man. “Please, I have a family… I can’t stay here, it’s not safe!”
“I’ll tell you what’s not safe,” said Crew calmly. “Pissing me off, that’s what. Who
started the outbreak?”
“Nobody knows. They’re all delirious… they’re having waking nightmares, terrible
nightmares, and they scream day and night. We were sedating them at first, but there
wasn’t enough to last. We don’t know what else to—”
236
“Yeah yeah, not my problem,” Crew cut in. “There’s been a Healer around here,
right? Could it have been him? Did he come into contact with any of the patients?”
The old man tried to run again, but Crew re-gripped him, slammed him into the
wall.
“I said,” said Crew, “did the Healer see any patients?”
“No… no, Dr Bastien kept him out of the hospital. He never got in. He… he couldn’t
have been involved.”
Crew gritted his teeth, checked over his shoulder, grim.
“Who treated the first patient?” he asked. “Which doctor?”
“Dr Anouma,” the man stuttered. “But she’s been missing since last night. Nobody
can find her, and she won’t answer her pages.”
“Any idea where she lives?”
“Here at the hospital, but she’s not here, I swear. She had an emergency with her
brother, and she was just… gone…”
Crew reared on the man, leaning in close.
“Her brother?” he breathed.
* * *
The room was so dark that Crew got antsy, pulled his gun. He nudged his way
forward, checking every angle with quick sweeps, until he arrived at the back of the
room, dim light shining through thick plastic covers over the window.
A single bed was propped on the side, and there, sheets askew, was a frail black
man who seemed to be on the verge of complete disintegration. He was watching as
Crew approached, eyes bloodshot and fearful.
“You’re Dr Anouma’s brother?” Crew asked, rough from the start.
Adjobi nodded, weak but anxious.
“She saw you last night? Late last night?”
“Yes…” whispered Adjobi.
“Did she say where she was going?”
Adjobi sat higher in the bed, pupils opening wide.
“She’s not downstairs?”
237
Crew shook his head.
“She took off after seeing you. Any idea why?”
“I… I don’t—”
“What do you know about the outbreak down there? Did she mention it?”
Adjobi sat up, thin arms bracing on the rails beside him, gasping for breath.
“Outbreak? What outbreak?”
“Something about screaming, I don’t know. She treated the first patient, so I need
to find her. So really: anything you’ve got rolling around in that head of yours would
be very useful right now.”
Adjobi blinked, seemed lost in thought, shook his head.
“I don’t know. She didn’t mention anything, didn’t say she was going anywhere.
But I…” he strained, unlatched the rail at his right side and swung his legs over the
edge. “I’ve got to go help. They’re understaffed enough as it is…”
Crew did a double-take, put a hand on Adjobi’s shoulder, holding him back.
“Hold a second there. I don’t think that’s a good idea…”
“I’m a doctor, I know what I’m—”
“I don’t think you do!” Crew interrupted, motioning to the dozen wires that strung
from machines around the room, taped and deep-set into Adjobi’s arms. “Are you
going to bring all this crap with you when you go? No! So sit down and let somebody
else deal with it!”
Adjobi eyed him sadly.
“I just… I just want to help.”
“You can help by telling me where your sister might be. She might be the only
person that has a chance of finding out who did this.”
Adjobi sighed, sitting at the side of the bed, thinking.
“I don’t know. We have cots here in the hospital, and I… wait, there’s something.
There’s a place we used to go when we first arrived… it’s a sports field, out on
Bruslařská. She used to go there to think. She might be there, I suppose, if anything.”
Crew nodded, tapped Adjobi on the shoulder as he backed away.
“Thanks, that’s great. Now get back in bed. I’ve got to go catch a monster.”
238
“You think he’s behind this?” Adjobi asked, and Crew paused suddenly, by the
door.
“What did you say?” he asked.
“Do you think the Healer started the outbreak?” Adjobi said, perched at the side of
his bed.
Crew turned around, stormed back into the room, and shoved the frail man back
onto the mattress, pinning him down with a hand to the forehead.
“Who said anything about a Healer?” he sneered.
Adjobi’s eyes were wide with pain and fear. He couldn’t move, with all the IVs and
probes in his arms, and they strained viciously, making him whimper in agony.
“I… I just assumed because…”
“Ha! You lie like my mother,” he cackled. “What do you know about the Healer?”
Adjobi shook his head frantically as Crew leaned in.
“Nothing! I swear, I don’t know anything at all!”
Crew grunted, reached out and grabbed the mass of wires that strung into Adjobi’s
arm and twisted them, and the poor man screamed hoarsely at the metal under his
skin pulling, tearing. Crew held the wires in a swirl and did not let go, leaned in a bit
so he was close to Adjobi’s pained face.
“We’ve got an outbreak down there, and you’re playing games with me?”
Adjobi sputtered, tears in his eyes, begging or mouthing a prayer or something to
make the pain stop.
“He was here,” he gasped. “he’s hunting a virus.”
“The one downstairs?” Crew demanded.
“No! No, not that. It’s me. He was hunting me.”
Crew eased up a bit, sized up the confession.
“So why’s he out there and not here?” he asked, uncertain. “They don’t leave the
victims alive.”
“He’s looking for the one who infected me. We… we made a bargain…”
“What kind of bargain?”
“I… I told him what I knew, and he let me live.”
Crew leaned in close, breathed foul breath through his mask into Adjobi’s face.
239
“Don’t lie to me. I’m having a bad day.”
“It’s not a lie! He let me live! All I had to do was give him a name, and he let me
go!”
“Then that makes you an accessory to murder. As many murders as he commits.”
Adjobi cried, but couldn’t reach his hands to his face for the wires.
“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry,” he wept.
Crew grunted, stood back up, letting go of the wires, pressed a hand into his
forehead. He looked around the room, back at the door, back at Adjobi.
“Will he be back?”
“I hope not,” Adjobi said weakly, and Crew nodded.
“Where is he?” he asked, avoiding eye contact.
Adjobi looked away, almost ashamed, winced. He said nothing. Crew turned to
him, fists on his hips, tilted his head unhappily.
“I said where is he?”
Adjobi sighed a long sigh.
“I… I promised I wouldn’t…”
Crew grabbed the wires again, twisted them, and pulled back. Two of the IVs pulled
free from Adjobi’s arm, pouring antibiotics and blood out onto the bed and floor. He
shrieked in pain, but his head was held tight by his interrogator, and he just twitched
helplessly on the bed. He gasped for air, the pain blinding him, and tears poured down
his cheeks.
“Where is he?” seethed Crew, each word accented with a light pull at the tangled
cords.
Adjobi swallowed, almost crying, and spoke softly: “I don’t know.”
Crew shook his head with grim disappointment, reared back to pull the wires clean
out of the frail man’s body, but felt Adjobi’s other hand hold his wrist, pleading. After
a pained pause, he spoke:
“But I know where he’s going.”
240
43
KIESLINGSTRAßE 14, NUREMBERG, GERMANY
JULY 3
Halfway down the stairs, Eva heard the familiar thump of the street door, and the
shuffle, shuffle of feet on the steps. She froze, bag over her shoulder, hand on the wall,
dead silent as she waited. The footsteps got closer, closer, and then she saw him:
Rhodri came pacing upwards, caught sight of her, and paused.
“Eva!” he panted. “What’s… what’s going on?”
She adjusted the backpack, took a deep breath, tried to stay calm.
“I’m going out,” she said quietly.
“Out?” he asked, stepping towards her. “With all that? Where are you going?”
He smiled, happy, seemingly innocent. She returned the smile, but artificially.
“Just out. Nowhere special. I’ll… I’ll be back in a bit.”
Rhodri frowned at her.
“What about my afternoon off?” he said, touching her hand, and she flinched, very
slightly.
“Can it wait?” she asked, sliding past him, but he caught her round the waist,
leaned her against the wall, leaned in to kiss her. She kept her mouth away, and he
brushed up against her cheek, once, twice, checking to be sure.
He moved back.
“What’s wrong?” he asked, his tone hardening. “What aren’t you telling me?”
Eva pushed him back suddenly, and he fell into the railing.
“Not telling you? What are you not telling me!”
She started down the stairs, but he caught her arm, turned her around. He looked
desperate, confused, flustered. Angry.
241
“Eva, listen, I don’t understand. What are you talking about? What happened?”
She pulled herself away from him, but didn’t run. She stood there, eyes shooting
left and right, thinking, fighting with herself. She threw her backpack off, reached in
the side pocket, and pulled it out: the container with the orange lid.
“What’s this supposed to be?”
His mouth dropped open, but he didn’t move. Then he closed his mouth, jaw
clenched tight. He met her eyes reluctantly.
“It’s complicated,” he said.
“I’ll bet. So try me.”
“Eva, not out here—”
“Yes out here! Come on! Let me have it! What have you really been doing all these
months? It’s not web design, is it? Is it?”
He shook his head slowly, sat on the steps, head low.
“No, it’s not,” he admitted. “But it’s not what you think—”
“Oh spare me the sob story! You’ve been lying to me, pretending to do good, and
all this time, you’ve been messing around with this, killing innocent people! People we
know! my clients! our friends! You’ve been killing them!”
“What are you talking about, Eva? I’m not—”
“Save it! I saw the news clippings! Modena, Graz and Linz were all eaten up by
major outbreaks just days after we left! It’s not a coincidence, Rhodri! Nobody could
think that’s a coincidence! That’s just murder, plain and simple!”
“Eva, I swear, if you just—”
“No!” she shouted, gripping the vial tight in her hand. “No more lies! That’s it! I’m
done! Burn in hell, Rhodri…”
She grabbed her bag up off the steps, turned to leave, but Rhodri reached for her,
grabbed her elbow. She turned fast, slammed her fists into him, and he stumbled back,
trying to hold her arms. He reached forward, trying to wrap his hands around her head,
trying to bring her to him. She kicked out, hit his shin, and they both fell down the
steps, crashing into the landing below.
242
Eva scrambled to her knees, reaching for her backpack, slid her mask onto her face,
as Rhodri lay there against the wall, bleeding out of his temple, head turned strangely,
eyes half-open, twitching with his heartbeat.
She backed up, hit the wall, and then saw it: the container lay beside him, lid
nearby, his shirt and face wet with its serum.
Eva checked herself quickly, patting herself down, feeling everywhere, the mask,
her hair, her clothes… she was dry… she was dry, but Rhodri was… he was…
His chest was still, but she was too scared to reach in and check for a pulse. She
slid further away, eyes never leaving him, slid further down the hall, and away. Rhodri
made no move to stop her. No move at all.
243
44
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva sat in one corner of the room, knees up, while Rhodri sat in the other, biting
his lower lip like he was containing a thought best left unsaid. She shivered through
her sweater, pulled herself tighter, refusing to take her eyes off him. Her mother sang
lullabies softly between them.
“You’re not real,” she told him, spat the words across the room. “You’re not real
and we both know it.”
Rhodri said nothing in return.
“The cocktail is working, so you can’t speak, you can’t touch me. If you were real,
you wouldn’t sit there so quietly. You and I both know that.”
He shrugged, noncommittal.
Eva got up, moved to the stretcher, took her mother’s hand, but kept a careful
watch on Rhodri, who stayed in his place, silent.
“Mama, I don’t know if you can hear me in there. I hope you can. I just want you
to know… just know that I’m going to make you better. Soon. I promise you. You just
have to hold on there a little bit longer.”
“Shh, dear, shh,” said her mother softly, her hands brushing hair that wasn’t there,
in a reality long since gone. “No more nightmares for you, dear. It’s all right.”
Eva smiled weakly, nodded.
The door opened, and Eva made a quick check to the corner to make sure Rhodri
hadn’t moved, that it wasn’t him. He hadn’t moved an inch; he sat there, nonplussed,
watched Dmitri come in.
“So?” said Eva urgently. “Did it work? Did it do anything?”
244
Dmitri tried to hide a smile, but failed.
“Like magic,” he said happily. “It cut through the delusions like nobody’s business.
I can’t tell how much he remembers, but he’s definitely back to his normal self. The
virus wasn’t destructive, whatever it did. It just messed with brain chemistry.”
Eva smiled, nodded.
“So we can make up two more doses then? We can fix my mother next?”
He winced, scratched at his cheek.
“Actually, the boss wants to see you first.”
“But I—”
“He says it’s important, and honestly, I kind of agree with him. You’ll want to hear
this.”
Eva shook her head, holding on to her mother’s hand tightly.
“I’m not leaving until she’s cured. Leave me if you like, but you have to let me fix
her before anything else. It’s hell, the place she’s trapped. I can’t leave her there any
longer.”
“I get you, kid. So listen, I’ll start the incubator working, and we can see the boss
while it works. Sound fair?”
Eva eyed the machine, checked Dmitri’s expression of pure sincerity. She nodded
slowly, and he made his way over, tapped the trackpad and started the process to create
another container of serum. Then he took her by the arm and led her gently to the
door. She turned back to her mother, touched her shoulder lightly.
“I’ll be back, mama. I’ll be right back.”
Dmitri brought her out, down a narrow hallway to an antechamber, built like it was
an entirely different building. The walls were a dark crimson, gold patterns accenting
the design. A pair of antique chairs sat at either side of a set of large, heavy doubledoors. The floor was layered in opaque plastic covering, the kind used to contain spills;
it ran up the edges of the walls slightly, roughly laid; out of place.
The doors opened as they approached, and Eva found herself in the most
magnificent bedroom she had ever seen: intricate wood panelling and murals all
around the room, like a Renaissance exhibit where you slept. The ceiling was high and
245
was laced with pinpoints of light in columns up to a single spot at the top of an arch,
where a skylight gave an almost unlikely view of the heavens.
To the right was a large window, an arched stain glass portion at the top, giving a
frosted view of Prague that did a wonderful job of hiding the truth. There were dressers
and a desk, a large reading chair and a dozen antique lamps, and in the centre of the
room was an expansive plush bed.
Like the floors, the bed was like an anachronism, layered with plastic and synthetic
fabric, machines framing it coldly, all whirring and beeping the status of their patient.
Dmitri deposited her at the bedside, backed away quietly, and the man on the bed
opened his eyes weakly, smiled at her.
“Eva,” he said weakly. “welcome. It’s good to see you at last. I’m Richard, an
acquaintance of your mother’s.”
Eva said nothing, tried to find the right expression for the situation.
“I hear that I have you to thank for my life,” he continued, then tweaked to
something, motioned to the side. “Dmitri, could you make sure Eva’s cure is uploaded
with the rest of them? I don’t want to miss the deadline.”
“Already taken care of, boss.”
“Excellent,” Richard said, nodding happily. “Yes, the cure seems to be brilliantly
made, Eva. But I must say, it’s not that much of a shock to me. I’ve been trying to
convince your mother to let me invite you into our little club for some time. I wonder
if things would have turned out differently if we’d had your help instead of Rhodri’s…”
On the other side of the room, in the corner again, Rhodri rolled his eyes in silence.
Eva ignored it.
“What does my mother have to do with this? She was a doctor. She helped people!
How did you make her have anything to do with the kinds of atrocities—”
“Eva, dear, I think you misunderstand us.”
“Oh, I understand you pretty well. You kill people for kicks. It’s pretty easy to
grasp.”
He shook his head, reached a weak arm out to her, but she pushed it away. Dmitri
made a subtle step forward behind her.
“Eva, we don’t make viruses. We make the cures.”
246
Eva blinked, backed up.
“You… what? What cures?”
He sat up, pained, leaned forward in bed, his arms across his folded legs, like a
sickly skeleton wrapped in sheets. He thought a moment, avoided looking at her.
“For the last two years, we have been working here, in Prague, and elsewhere, to
discover, isolate and treat strains of viruses that are largely ignored by the major
corporations. They’re not as glamorous, not as profitable, I dare say, but they’re vital.
If left untreated, they grow and spread and mutate and then one day, they take down
a city, kill millions, and it’s only then that people wonder what went wrong. ‘How could
this happen?’ they ask, ‘I thought the worst of it was over.’ It’s a cycle that never ends,
and I’ve seen it far too many times to bear.
“My goal — our little group’s goal — was to eliminate those strains before they took
over Europe. We had our hands full with the eastern plagues that passed through
Prague. The ones the Chinese didn’t catch. But we also wanted to tackle the western
ones as well, and ideally before they got this far east. We tried making alliances with
doctors across Europe, offering bounties, but there are only so many incubators left
outside government hands, and the risks of using them is not for the weak of heart. So
it was decided we had to find an agent who could sample and treat the viruses no one
else had seen…”
“Wait, are you saying…”
“We hired Rhodri to handle that role.”
At the side of the room, Rhodri seemed close to tears, hurt by the revelation,
lowered his face into his hands. Eva nearly threw up.
“He was saving people?” she gasped.
The frail man said nothing for a moment, and Eva noticed Dmitri shake his head
to himself.
“Rhodri saved thousands, I’m sure. We sent him an incubator, and he used it to do
the initial diagnoses, and build the cure compounds. By the time you left Italy, he’d
found the treatments to nearly two dozen diseases. Diseases that, because of his work,
will never harm another soul again.”
Rhodri stared headlong into Eva, accusing.
247
“I… I didn’t know…”
“Your mother didn’t want you to know. She thought you weren’t able to cope with
it. She was afraid of what it might do to you, after you’d worked so hard to get your life
back together. She outright refused to let me offer you the job, and I admit, when I
heard about Rhodri and his apparent skills, I went behind her back to recruit him.
When she found out, she was furious; she was certain that bringing your boyfriend into
our team would put an unbearable strain on your relationship. I think he agreed with
her, vowed to keep it secret.”
“If I’d known… I blamed him…”
Dmitri coughed from behind, and Richard reached out, held Eva’s hand.
“It’s not as simple as it seemed, my dear,” he said. “Not by a long shot. It missed
our attention, too, at first… but after watching the situation closely, Dmitri realized
that every time the two of you left a city, a massive plague ravaged the population.
Almost like clockwork. Right after he finished deploying the antivirus, the reports
began to trickle in from sources around the region; within days, it was a flood no one
could overcome.”
“I don’t understand,” Eva said blankly. “Deployed how? He worked hard, but never
long enough to vaccinate dozens, let alone hundreds of people. How can you be sure it
was him?”
“Oh, it was more than possible it was him. So much so, it was unlikely to be anyone
else. We weren’t inoculating in the traditional sense, given how limited our resources
were. We created a series of aerosolized payloads, left them in key locations around
town, and let the contagious nature of our compounds do the rest.”
“Just like a typical terrorist strike—” Eva began.
“But with an anti-virus instead, yes,” smiled Richard. “Traditional treatment
vectors like booster shots are still part of the plan, but those methods are delayed,
wrought with red tape and political infighting. We thought of all the lives we could save
by pushing the cures straight to the people at risk, right when they needed them, and
we decided it was worth the risk.”
“Except if something went wrong,” Eva noted.
248
“Indeed. We were shocked to discover things had gone wrong, and put countless
hours into deciphering the cause.”
Eva frowned.
“So you were treating multiple viruses in a single treatment, right?”
“Yes, it was the most efficient way to operate.”
“But if you mixed that many compounds, maybe they were interacting with each
other, making something new, something dangerous you didn’t expect. I saw that a
bunch of times… you might have been making a poison with all your cures.”
“We thought of that, too,” he said sadly. “So in Linz, we were careful to test that
angle. Our agent here, he tested the compound endlessly, checked it from every angle,
and he was certain there was no chance of side-effects from that set. And yet, somehow,
once deployed by Rhodri in Linz, we had the same results. Massive casualties.”
Eva looked to Rhodri. He seemed as confused about all this as she was. She shook
it off, kept from looking at him. Dmitri’s phone purred softly, and he flipped it open,
backing out of the room.
“We checked and double-checked everything,” Richard continued. “You can
imagine our emotions at the time: we were mortified that we were somehow making
things worse, and we were desperate to figure out how it had gone all wrong. We’d
been working nearly a year in advance of Rhodri’s involvement without any issues
whatsoever, and now suddenly it was all falling apart? It made no sense; we started
second-guessing ourselves, thinking maybe it was a difference between eastern and
western coding techniques… anything that might help it make sense.
“But in the end, it was clear it wasn’t on our end. It wasn’t the individual cures. It
was something added to the mix right before deployment. It had to be. Somewhere
along the way, Rhodri had decided to use us to release new viruses into the wild. We
had enabled him, and so many lost their lives because of it.”
“Wait, hold on,” Eva said, her voice cracking with emotion, Rhodri in the corner
looking hopeful and yet tired, weak. “How do you know it was him? Maybe it was one
of your other people. You had someone reviewing stuff, maybe that person did it, and
you’re just blaming—”
249
“That man is in the hospital, fighting for his life, after falling prey to one of Rhodri’s
booby traps.”
Eva blinked. She glanced over to Rhodri, briefly, and in that second, his expression
changed. A slow, sly grin.
“What are you talking about?”
“This virus, the one that infected me, your mother... it was put into a package we
received from Rhodri. He’s trying to kill us, Eva, because we know what he’s done…”
Eva sighed loudly, overcome, lowered her head in shame, regret, something.
“Don’t worry,” she said softly. “It’s over now.”
“What do you mean? What’s over?”
“He’s not going to hurt anyone anymore. He’s dead. Rhodri’s dead.”
Richard sat up in bed, mouth hanging open, reached out and touched Eva’s
shoulder gently, squeezing.
“What do you mean, he’s dead?”
“I killed him. It was… it was an accident, but it happened. I haven’t been able to
tell how I should feel about it, all this time. But now I think… I think it was for the best.
It’s horrible to say that, but I do. I’m glad he’s dead, that he can’t hurt anyone else.”
Rhodri scowled at her, got to his feet, and her heart jerked in her chest.
“Eva,” Richard said carefully, deliberate. “When did this happen? When did he
die?”
Eva frowned.
“Months ago. Early July. He—”
“He’s not dead,” Richard said, ominously. “He can’t be dead. We were poisoned
three weeks ago, Eva. He’s been threatening us, the whole city, for weeks.”
“Wait, you mean Prague-1—”
“Rhodri is alive,” he said, weak. “And I fear he’s come to finish what he started.”
250
45
STAROPRAMENNÁ 2, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Sobotka stepped around the blood on the floor, the streaks leading to the corner
where the body of a badly beaten man lay, propped up against the wall, eyes open and
manic. It stunk horribly, and she pulled the strap on her mask tighter, kept from
gagging. She moved silently into the hallway beyond, checked up the stairs, the wood
scraped and raw.
As she slipped into the living room on the second floor, she loosed her gun from its
holster, kept it trained at the floor, but ready, eyes wide open. She paused there, by the
entrance, saw the sheets on the ground, the broken window, the spent clothes. A large,
open duffel bag, stuffed with food packets, gadgets and blankets.
Just then, Pyotr came shuffling into the room, his beard shaved, clothes fresh,
carrying a selection of toiletries in a large biohazard bag. He threw them into the duffel
bag, began to turn back, then saw her, froze.
“Hello, Pyotr,” she grinned, aimed at his heart. “Where are you off to?”
His eyes darted, trying to imagine an excuse. She stormed towards him, used a
bloodied boot to kick him onto the floor, kept the gun at him.
“Please,” Pyotr pleaded, “I was going to tell you—”
“I’m sure,” Sobotka sneered, and kicked him in the knee. “Where’s your girlfriend,
Pyotr? I don’t see her, and I seem to recall telling you not to let her out of your sight.”
“We were kidnapped!” he explained, desperate, and she rolled her eyes. “Well, I
mean, she was kidnapped. They let me go.”
“How convenient for you.”
“It’s the truth, I swear! She made them let me go!”
251
“If she knows about your little scam, why would she cut you any slack? You helped
her escape, didn’t you?”
“No! She let me go! She said she’s sick of people dying, told them to kick me out
alone!”
Sobotka perfected her aim on his forehead, scowled.
“Too bad for you, I’m still good with the dying.”
He covered his head with his arms, ready for the shot, but just then, Sobotka’s
phone rang. She kept the gun at him, reached into her pocket and flipped it open.
“Hold that thought,” she said to Pyotr, then barked into the phone: “I’m busy.
What?”
“Did you hear yet?” Crew wheezed. “You know what’s going on?”
“No. What’s going on?”
“There’s an outbreak at the hospital. They’ve shut down the main floor, locked
everyone in. They’re already calling it Prague-1, whatever it is.”
Sobotka’s mouth fell open, then curled into a smile.
“Rhodri Tenant’s come to town,” she said.
“Tenant? Hell no! The Healer!”
“Oh for the love of god, Crew. It’s obviously not the Healer. Give it up!”
“That’s what you say, but I’ve got a witness that puts him tight with a doctor at the
source of the outbreak.”
“So what, a doctor is working with a Healer to kill us? It kind of goes against both
their philosophies, don’t you think?”
“People do stupid things,” Crew said ominously.
“Case in point,” Sobotka cracked.
“So I’m going it alone? You’re not going to give me backup when I take this joker
down?”
Sobotka checked Pyotr, the snow-covered city outside, thought a moment.
“No,” she said. “I’ve got enough to cut through here. Waste time if you need to. Let
me know how it goes.”
252
Crew harumphed and hung up on her. She slid the phone back into her pocket,
cricked her neck and refocused on Pyotr, who hadn’t found a good alternative to
cowering yet.
“So it seems you did your job half-well,” she sighed. “Tenant’s here.”
“He came?” gasped Pyotr. “How do you know?”
“Kicked off a new outbreak. The outbreak. And god knows, he’s probably looking
for you now, after what you did to his girlfriend.”
“But she isn’t—”
“I’m pretty sure a homicidal maniac isn’t going to care,” she interrupted, stowing
her gun, offering him a hand. He looked at it, apprehensive, then reached out and let
himself be pulled to his feet. He watched her, cautious.
“The ones who kidnapped Kolikov, did they seem friend-like, or enemy-like?”
Pyotr thought a moment, tense and spastic.
“I think they knew her. I never found out from where, but—”
“They’re probably friends of Tenant’s then,” she grumbled, grabbed him by the
collar and dragged him to the stairs roughly.
“Where are we going?” he squeaked as he was thrown down the first few steps.
“You’re going to show me exactly where they brought you,” she called down. “And
we’re going to turn Mr Tenant’s head into a sieve.”
* * *
Carey put the magazine down atop the pile of seven others, his gloves creaking
from the effort, and adjusted the mask on his face to alleviate the pinching on his nose.
The goggles fogged briefly, but then a quick hiss later, things went back to normal. He
checked his watch again, shook his head.
“I don’t suppose you have any more information…” he began asking one of the
dark-suited guards who stood by the door, hands folded neatly, staring at nothing.
The guard continued to ignore him.
Carey picked up another magazine, flipped the first few pages, then checked the
date.
253
“This one is ten years old,” he sighed to no one, certainly not the guard. “Don’t you
people recycle anything here?”
He checked his watch yet again, then threw the magazine down, got to his feet. The
guard turned slightly, hands ready, stared down and down and down at Carey’s
impressively bundled figure.
“I’m sorry,” Carey said, angry but still apologetic. “This just won’t do. I have been
waiting here for nearly two hours, and there’s been no indication that anyone even
knows I’m here. I am an agent of the British government, and I insist on seeing Mr
Daniels right n—”
Mid-word, the doors opened and a thickly-set man with a stubbly jaw and a crisp
white mask strode in, hand out; Carey shook it, apprehensive.
“Mr Carey, is it?” the man asked, accent thick. Eastern European.
“Y-y-yes. I’ve been waiting—”
“Yeah, I should apologize for that. My staff ain’t the brightest, got the lines of
communication tangled, as it were. I didn’t hear you’d arrived until just a few minutes
ago. Did anyone get you something to eat or…” he smiled at the full-head mask,
shrugged. “Or not.”
“It’s quite all right. Are you… Mr Daniels?”
The man guffawed loudly, slapped Carey on the back.
“Me? No, I’m his executive assistant, Dmitri.”
“Just ‘Dmitri’?”
“Unless you’re buyin’ drinks,” he smirked, leading Carey into a hallway. A guard
stood every few metres, hands posed like the one Carey’d seen, staring past them.
Expertly trained.
“I have a warrant here to take Mr Daniels into custody immediately and—”
“Yeah, he’s aware. He wants me to show you in right away. But…”
Dmitri paused them, leaned closer to Carey, confidential, eyes darting around.
“He’s been a bit under the weather lately. Had a bad cold. Prague winters, y’know.
So whatever you do, don’t go rushing to conclusions, okay? He’s pretty sensitive to
people treating him like he’s diseased and such. Just try and act natural. Pretend he
looks fine. Got it?”
254
Carey nodded tentatively. His body suit made it somewhat difficult, however.
He was led into an ornate bedroom just as a young woman, pale and trembling,
shuffled out. She watched him carefully, keeping a broad distance, in complete silence.
Carey arrived at the bedside of a frail-looking man, various life-saving machines slid
into dark corners of the room, but strikingly present.
Carey cleared his throat, reached out a cordial hand.
“Mr Daniels,” he said, noticing three of the guards in the room stepping forward,
ready. “So good to finally meet you.”
Daniels took the hand, nodded as if he were at a dinner party, meeting a random
guest.
“Likewise,” he said. “I’m afraid I didn’t catch your name.”
“Oh, William Carey, sir. Special agent for the Containment Office. My Director—”
“I know your Director well, Mr Carey. I trust he’s well?”
“Yes, sir. Actually, he made me promise I would ask how you’re doing, too.”
There was an uncomfortable pause. Even the guards looked like they wanted to
leave.
“I’m doing fine, thank you,” said Daniels, smiling at the stiffness of the moment.
“Tending to business, all that.”
Carey nodded in agreement, big long bobs of his head, and clasped his hands
around the heavy metal case that was pulling him downward.
“I don’t mean to impose, sir,” said Carey, jovially. “But I’m afraid I will need to
gather a quick blood sample from you, if it’s convenient.”
“Please do,” Daniels smiled, gesturing to his bed. Carey heaved the case up onto
the sheets with some effort and popped it open. He worked fast, hands shaking,
clicking the syringe together and attaching it to the base of the extraction instrument.
After a moment of work, he had gathered a decent sample of blood from Daniels’
arm, slid the vial into the case’s built-in processor. He pushed the ‘test’ button, sighed
a self-satisfied sigh, and nodded to Daniels.
“Won’t be long,” he said, as if he were waiting for dinner to reheat in the
microwave.
255
Daniels put a hand on Carey’s shoulder, causing instant tension. He shifted
slightly.
“We are at war, Mr Carey,” came the voice, quiet and confidential.
“Indeed, sir,” he said, not knowing what else to say.
“If these viruses make it into Britain somehow and we could have stopped them…”
Daniels said, his voice filling with anger. “I found these diseases, I cured them, and I
did it for my country. And I cannot accept that that is somehow wrong.”
Carey nodded.
“I understand, sir. But… one thing at a time, I suppose.”
He motioned down to the computer, still chugging away. Daniels’ eyes were cold.
“You think I’m dying.”
“Well I mean… er…” Carey said, catching a mean glare from Dmitri, who stood to
the side with his arms crossed unhappily. “In all honesty, sir, you don’t look healthy,
and you’ve been living in a black zone for… well… quite a long time, we think. Certainly
a long time to not have picked up something.”
Daniels smiled, and the computer purred softly as it finished its work. Carey looked
down at the read-out and frowned. He looked back up at Daniels, cocked his head.
“It… you’re… you’re clean.”
Daniels’ smile seemed relieved at the same time as vindicated. He patted Carey on
the shoulder.
“It’s okay, Mr Carey, I know I must not look it.”
Carey nodded blankly, then snapped out of his stupor, shoulders straightening,
and he clasped his hands together tightly.
“In that case, sir,” he said, nearly regaining his authoritative footing. “I’m going to
have to place you under arrest for violating the National Containment Order.”
Daniels nodded again, this time less happily, but still with confidence. Carey
removed a pair of handcuffs from his pack, and the guards in the room began to move
again, until Daniels held up a pausing hand. To them, but also to Carey.
“If you would be kind enough to wait a moment, Mr Carey,” said Daniels kindly,
stopping Carey dead in his tracks. “I have a favour to ask of you.”
256
46
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
When Eva arrived back in the room, Rhodri was already there. She shut the door
behind her, eyed him carefully.
“I should have made sure you were dead,” she told him, cold and dispassionate.
He didn’t reply, just smirked at her.
“Still in my head,” she sighed. “But I guess that’s better than the alternative.”
She checked the incubator, and pulled the finished container out, the lid fastened
tight. She pushed it into her pocket, hit the button to create another batch, but the
machine flashed a warning: “Please insert serum refill tube”. She checked inside, and
sure enough, it was empty. She looked back at her mother, heard a soft lullaby,
squeezed the container in her pocket.
“I’ll be right back, mama,” she whispered, and opened the door a crack.
Outside, another guard stood with his back to her, watching the hallway carefully.
He turned his head slightly at the door opening, then looked back ahead.
“Go back inside,” he told her.
“I need some needles,” she said, “so I can help my mother.”
He didn’t move a muscle.
“Stay inside,” he repeated sternly. “Until I say otherwise.”
Eva stepped into the hall, tense and angry, looked left and right, trying to find a
medical station somewhere. The guard turned to her, grabbed her by the arm, tried to
push her back into the room.
“I said stay inside!” he growled. She fought back, gripping the door frame. The
guard was clearly not prepared for such an occasion, let go over her arm, and planted
257
his palm on her face, pushing her. She ducked away from the movement, slipped
outside, and he stumbled in.
She was halfway down the hall when she was caught again, dragged back offbalance, and slammed against the wall.
“Don’t mess with me, girlie,” he said, angrily. “Just get in the room and shut up.”
She kneed him in the groin, and he fell over at once.
“Don’t mess with me,” she seethed, stepping over him and checking down the hall.
But then she heard it: the clear click of a gun ready to shoot. She looked over her
shoulder, saw the guard there, carefully aiming at her, eyes narrow with pain.
“That’s it!” he said, vein bulging in his forehead. “On your knees!”
Eva’s face was blank with fear. She’d overstepped, and now this… she was halfway
to complying when she heard angry shouts from behind, and Dmitri rushed in,
snatching the gun away from the guard and slamming him against the wall.
“What the hell do you think you’re doing?” he yelled into the guard’s face. “I told
you to watch her, not shoot her!”
“She was trying to leave the—”
“I don’t care what she was doing! There’s no excuse for this!”
“But—”
Dmitri ripped the man’s mask off his face, threw it to the ground. He grabbed him
on the collar, shoved him towards Eva, onto the floor.
“Get out of my sight. You’re fired. If I see you again, I’ll have you shot. By someone
competent.”
The guard scrambled away, rushing down the hall, through a door and out of sight.
Dmitri helped Eva to her feet, turned meekly to the others who’d come with him.
“Sorry about that, Mr Carey,” he said apologetically. “Hard to find good help round
here.”
The masked man — whom Eva thought looked horribly like the Healers she’d heard
about all these years — nodded. Richard looked rattled, kept checking Eva, making
sure she was okay.
“It’s hard to find good help pretty much everywhere,” Carey agreed. “Now if you
don’t mind…”
258
He held out a small device with a needle at its point, started towards Eva. She
backed up, hitting the wall.
“What’s going on?” she gasped.
Richard put a hand on Carey’s arm, held him back.
“I’m sorry, Mr Carey, I thought I made it clear I was seeking asylum for my wife
and step-daughter.”
Eva’s head swam suddenly, and she slid to the ground, looking from Richard to
Carey to Dmitri, trying to see… trying to make sense of it. It was impossible to read
Carey, but by the change in his stance, he was preparing to be tough.
“You made it perfectly clear, Mr Daniels, but I’m afraid regulations require me to
check their health status before I can process them, even as refugees. They can’t be
admitted, even to Brighton, if they’re actively infected.”
“Listen, I have a personal facility outside London I can sequester them in if that—
”
“I’m afraid not, sir. It would be nearly impossible under normal circumstances, but
given the particulars of the trial you’ll be subject to, we wouldn’t stand a chance of
sneaking something like that under the rug. No chance at all. We can only mask
scrutiny so far.”
Eva had her head in her hands, trembling.
“You’re married?” she said, staring at the floor. “And nobody thought to tell me?”
Carey looked to Richard, cocked his head.
“Mr Daniels…?” he asked.
Richard waved it off, a hint of a politic smile, but drowning in concern.
“She’s been gone for many years. Travel. I don’t think she got the wedding
announcement.”
Eva glared at Richard, cold. Dmitri, behind Carey, gave her a very slow shake of
the head. She frowned briefly, and he returned it with a wordless urgent appeal.
“If she’s been travelling, I’ve double the reason to check her blood,” Carey said.
“Now if you don’t mind, I’ve a schedule to keep.”
Eva looked to Richard, to Dmitri, desperate for advice, guidance. They both
nodded to her solemnly.
259
“Fine,” she sighed, rolling up her sleeve and letting him draw the blood. When he
was done, she slid her arm close to herself, backed against the wall, waited. Carey
stared at his device intently, seemingly oblivious to the rest of the tension in the
cramped hallway.
He looked up, to Eva, then settled on Richard.
“She’s infected,” he said, double-checking the results. “I’m afraid I can’t take her
with us.”
“You’ll leave me here alone? What about my mother! She’d never agree to that if
she were—”
“If she were what?” Carey asked, checking between Richard and Dmitri. “Is she
infected as well?”
“Mr Carey, if you could just…” Richard began, but he was cut off by Carey swinging
a pair of handcuffs up.
“I’m sorry, Mr Daniels. We’ve no more time for these games. You’ve got to come
with me.”
He pushed Richard against the wall, pulled one arm back, then the other. And then
a gun pointed carefully at the side of his head; he almost didn’t see it through the
goggles.
“Mr Carey,” Richard said darkly. “I’m afraid this won’t work out after all.”
Dmitri motioned with his gun, and Carey obediently backed away from the rest of
them, hands in the air, cuffs hanging from his fingers. Eva got to her feet behind
Dmitri. Richard smiled weakly.
“And now we will have to reconsider our plan of action,” he said without a hint of
frustration. “If you’ll come with me, then.”
Dmitri kept the gun on the prisoner, and the three men walked down the hall and
out of sight, leaving Eva alone again, only Rhodri keeping her company. He heard him
chuckle quietly. She scowled at him.
She went back into the room and found her mother crying softly, shaking her head
side to side as if trying to wake up. Tears streamed down her face, and her arms tensed
violently; if she’d been free, she might have done something horrible with her clawing
hands. Eva brushed her hair gently, leaned in and kissed her on the forehead.
260
“Just another minute, mama. I promise,” she said, then snuck back into the hall.
Down, away from Richard’s room, she found a small walk-in-closet filled with shelves
and drawers and a large needle dispenser in the back. She ducked in, took a syringe
from the counter and clipped on a head. She pulled the container from her pocket,
undid the lid, and gently placed the needle into the serum.
Just then, she heard loud footsteps in the hall, shouting. It startled her, and she
dropped the container… she tried to catch it before it hit the ground, but it bounced off
the countertop and crashed on the floor, upside-down. The cure flowed quickly onto
the tile.
She bit back a curse as she heard the quick pause of footsteps outside.
“Hey, should this be open?” called a gruff voice, a guard, in Russian.
Eva reached down, snatched the fallen container off the ground, and quickly slid
back to the side of the door, the unused needle in her hands as her only weapon. She
stayed there in the dark, the door open a crack, waiting.
She heard the sound of heavy boots stepping into the room, and the door swung
wider. Breathing, panting almost, and the shadow on the wall told her he was alone.
She held the needle backhand, evened her breathing. She waited for him to move.
But instead, he ducked back out, closing the door behind him, and she stood in the
darkness.
“All clear!” he called out, and took off down the hall.
Eva released her breath, felt shaky. She reached over, turned on the lights, and
checked the spilled antivirus. The container was empty, and what was left on the floor
was so dispersed, it was unusable. Eva stood up, ran her hands through her hair, trying
to think. She felt the warm breath of Rhodri on her neck, but ignored it.
She started rushing through drawers, cupboards, anything, until she found a tray
labelled “Incubator Refills”. It was empty. She slammed it back into place, swearing.
“If I can’t make any more…” she whispered to herself.
It came to her suddenly: the refills at her mother’s apartment! She smiled broadly,
and turned, hearing Rhodri clapping at her, sarcastic applause. He didn’t speak, but
he was getting clearer in her mind. She grimaced.
“I need to slow it down,” she muttered.
261
She rummaged again, quickly coming to a small refrigerated compartment labelled
“Cocktails”. She threw it open, and stumbled back at what she saw: there was only one
vial of cocktail left. She darted eyes to Rhodri, then to the door, and she grabbed it out
of the fridge, another needle, and rushed back down the hall.
Her mother was starting to scream again, convulsing angrily. Eva filled the needle,
pushed it into her mother’s IV, then paused.
“I need you to stay calm until we get home, all right, mama?”
There was no response. Eva inhaled slowly, then injected the last of the cocktail.
She rested her head on the panicked chest, hearing the heartbeat, hearing it slow,
becoming calmer, and then she carefully undid the restraints, pulled her mother out
of bed, and with the incubator in one hand, stumbled her way home.
Rhodri trailed behind, nearly stepping on her heels, grinning all the way.
262
47
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
The Healer’s suit was humming softly as the snow melted on his shoulders. He
watched the building across the street, a stark white structure almost trying to blend
into the cold wintry afternoon. The lights were all on, but there was no motion from
inside.
Beside him, Anouma was shivering, her winter jacket atop her white coat, but
neither warm enough to fight off the breeze.
“You will stay here,” he said to her, blunt and brief.
She looked at him, squinted. She seemed to see right into him, and he looked away
as if to stop her. She shook her head.
“No,” she said firmly. “I’ve got to go with you. I need to stop you from killing any
more innocent people.”
“It could be dangerous,” he countered.
“Not if I do the talking,” she said. “If it were up to you, everything would be a
bloodbath. Let me try.”
Silence. He stood beside her and the snow continued to fall.
“Fine,” he said bitterly, and started across the street, aware of her following close
behind.
They reached the main door and he reached to knock, but she moved him aside,
out of sight, and knocked on the door herself. He stared at her, warning, but she kept
her arms tightly locked behind herself, watching the snow, waiting.
He heard the dead bolt unlock. A tentative noise. And then, a pause, a quiet
scraping of metal on the door. Anouma didn’t notice it, kept a pleasant, hopeful smile
263
on her face. But the Healer knew. He threw his cloak over his shoulder, shoved her to
the side, and as the door opened, he grabbed the gun that peeked through the opening.
With a solid pull, he found his mark: he pinched a gloved hand so hard it spasmed and
dropped the weapon.
Anouma fell to the ground just as the Healer spun around, letting go the door and
giving it a swift kick, straight into the face of a guard, who fell backwards into the
hallway, his nose broken and gushing blood.
The man, stunned and disoriented, reached feebly for his second weapon as the
Healer marched forward, stepping on his right arm, and then punching him squarely
in the face. The man’s head hit the ground with a thud, and his eyes rolled back into
unconsciousness.
The Healer looked back to Anouma, scowled beneath his mask.
“Wait outside. I must deal with innocent people.”
He walked past his first target, flexing his hurt shoulder as he made his way down
the hall. It hurt, but burned in a way that pushed him forward.
As he came to the first door, on his left, he saw on the frame the quick movement
of a shadow. Without losing his pace, he leapt forward into a roll, fast and low, and his
machete swung out in time to catch another guard’s arm in the middle as they reached
out to fire. The arm wasn’t cut clean off, but it hung uselessly, and the guard screamed
loudly, fell down into the doorway.
The Healer noticed, just in time, the accomplice inside the room; another roll
helped him dodge a wide shotgun blast. He spun his weapon around in his hand, his
back to the wall, out of view.
The first guard, on the floor, was choking now, having cried himself into a daze.
The Healer heard a quick inhalation, and the second man leapt out of the room, gun
firing blindly, hoping for a hit. The Healer ducked down, pushed into the attack; he
collided with the man, shoving him into the wall, and then hit him with his elbow,
knocking some teeth out and sending the enemy sprawling.
The gun skidded down the hall, out of reach, and the Healer kicked the side of his
head with a heavy boot. He hit the wall, left a mark of blood.
264
The Healer had just enough time to duck into the side room before a round of
automatic weapons fire sprayed where he’d been standing. Inside, two large tables
stood against the far wall, a collection of metal chairs, some beverages scattered
around. He noticed the light switch next to him and flicked it downward, disappearing
into the darkness.
The shadows of the new assailants slid towards him, becoming sharper and sharper
as they closed in. He darted across the room, upended one of the tables, and slid it
towards the door, covering the opening. In a second, the table shattered in a dozen
places, wood chips tossed wildly by bullets. The Healer ducked around the other side
of the door, out of view, silent.
The light from the hallway shone through the holes in the table, streaks through
the dusty air, and for a moment, all the Healer could hear were the pained gasps of the
bleeding guard outside. Then a hit, a crunch, another hit, and the table started to move.
Another pause, and the Healer turned his machete around again, backhanded, and
pressed himself against the wall.
A kick now, and this time the table slid into the room, and a rectangle of light hit
the far wall, framing the form of a guard whose gun was aimed the wrong way. The
Healer swung around, catching the man in the chest with his blade; the man jerked
violently as the impact ended his life. Without a pause, the Healer moved forward, as
the wood behind him exploded, gunshots hitting the back wall harmlessly.
The Healer pulled the dead man’s gun from his hand, came round the corner so
fast the second guard had no time to react. The flow of bullets hit the guard ruthlessly
in the chest, and he dropped to the ground, his face still in a state of shock.
A quick movement later, the Healer was on the other side of the door again,
watching bodies pile in front of his exit.
He flicked the light on. Paused. Then off.
He listened, heard nothing. Staggering silence. He looked down at the man with
the severed arm, saw he was looking back around the corner, his whimpering all but
stopped, his breathing calm. Emboldened.
The Healer grabbed him by his jacket, and with a pained grunt, yanked him out of
the doorway and into the room. The man screamed hysterically, his arm nearly coming
265
off; at least one set of boots outside pounded loudly, coming to his rescue. The Healer
held the man close to him, and then, trying to think past his pain, threw the man out
into the hallway.
A barrage of gunfire shot out and sprayed the poor wretch with bullets, and he
bounced off the wall and onto the ground, dead before he could continue his
screaming. The Healer used the moment of confusion to point the stolen gun round
the corner and fire in an arc, and he heard the quick thuds of hits, grunts, yelps, and
then heavy thumps as bodies landed on the ground.
He pulled his arm back into the room, stayed tight against the wall, held the pain
in his shoulder at bay. There were no sounds but the ringing in his ears, the whining
noise he couldn’t escape. His suit was warning him, warning him to calm down.
“Are you alive?” called Anouma, somewhere in the distance.
He paused.
“Yes,” he answered simply.
He heard the sound of tentative footsteps.
“They’re all dead,” she said, voice trembling.
He carefully walked into the hallway again, saw the damage all around; Anouma
standing by the front door, just beyond the first sentry, stalled by the sight of so many
bodies. He nodded to her painfully.
“You should leave,” he told her. “They are not interested in talking.”
“Yes,” she said quietly, and she stepped away, back outside.
* * *
Crew hit the brakes too late, and the car skidded sideways, slamming sidelong into
the dark sedan, sending the two of them sliding on the ice, until the sedan came to a
rest just inches from the side of a building. When the cars stopped, Crew threw himself
out, chest puffed and angry.
“What the hell was that?” he shouted. “Learn to drive, you maniac!”
“Me?” yelled Sobotka, kicking her own door closed, Pyotr cuffed in the back seat.
“What kind of idiot speeds around in these conditions?”
“It’s November!” Crew blustered. “It’ll melt!”
266
Sobotka laughed, checked her car for damage. It was dented lightly along the side,
but otherwise fine. The Aston-Martin was somehow in pristine condition.
“Nice car,” she cracked. “where you going so fast?”
Crew checked the house numbers, frowning. He settled on the one Sobotka’s car
had nearly crashed into. He motioned with his chin.
“This one right here. You?”
Sobotka frowned, checked back to Pyotr, then back to Crew.
“Same.”
Crew cackled madly, doubled over from the effort, while Sobotka scowled.
“Oh this is rich! So what, your kid is teamed up with my Healer or something?”
Sobotka shook her head. She was about to speak when the side door to the building
opened, and into the street came Eva, her mother, and an incubator. They made it a
few steps before Eva noticed Sobotka and Crew, arms folded, obviously amused at their
own good luck.
Eva set the incubator down, held her mother upright.
“This isn’t what it looks like!” she pleaded.
“Oh, then you’ve got to tell me what it is!” Sobotka cackled.
“Found your mother, I see,” said Crew, nodding to his partner. “Good luck, that.”
“Yes indeed,” said Sobotka gravely.
Eva looked behind them at the running car, saw Pyotr’s face pressed close to the
windshield, trying to spy. She sneered at them.
“How’s your snitch working out?” she said bitterly.
Sobotka grinned.
“Not the best snitch, but he’ll do,” she sneered. “I think you and your mother have
some big things to explain to us. Like where you’re hiding your boyfriend, and how to
stop the outbreak at the hospital.”
Eva backed up, then heard the sound of crashing glass, and a second-storey
window in Daniels’ compound broke outwards. A man in a black suit flew backwards
and down, down into the windshield of the car, cracking it horribly. Shards of glass
stuck out of his already-mangled body, and he crumpled there, blood seeping out.
Crew, Sobotka and Eva all looked at the dead man in shock.
267
“Thank god I didn’t park there,” Crew said.
Crew and Sobotka looked back to Eva, then the window, then back to Eva again,
exchanged glances.
“I think you want to check in there first,” Eva offered.
“Hell yeah,” said Crew, turning and running back to the front of the building.
“We’ll be in touch!” called Sobotka, following her partner with her gun drawn.
Eva paused for a moment, looking at the man on the car, then picked up the
incubator and pushed onward, back to home.
268
48
MUSÍLKOVA 27, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
The Healer retrieved his machete from the chest of a fallen guard, wiped the blood
off on a stray leg, then swung it lightly, getting the weight back. The upstairs hallway
was deserted now, but for the sounds of two men slowly dying of their wounds. Ahead
of him, a room beckoned cheerfully, pleasant lighting nearly hiding the shadow of
another person.
He stopped for a moment, listened. The broken window behind him was whistling
faintly as the wind outside blew by, and he heard the drip, drip, drip of snow melting
inside and onto the floor. A very quiet shuffle called from ahead.
He started forward, involuntarily clutching his injured shoulder, squeezing the
pain away. He heard another soft shuffle among the crackles and the drips, and he held
his breath so he could hear better. There was a very calm and deliberate breathing,
very close. Very calm. A professional.
In a moment, they were engaged. A sharp sensation sliced into the Healer’s left
arm just above his elbow, and his suit screamed out with his senses, and he knew he’d
been cut. He spun himself around, his machete swinging, and the other man barely
dodged. A bloodied axe wrenched from the wall.
The two of them faced each other, far enough apart to be safe, but not enough to
release any tension. They began again: the axe swung forward, and the Healer sidestepped, swung with his machete, but both missed; the Healer received a kick to the
stomach that sent him flailing backwards, trying to keep from landing off his feet.
The axe came back towards him in a broad arc, but he let himself fall backwards,
avoiding it. He landed on the ground and without a pause to think, dangerously swung
269
his arm and weapon out towards the other man’s legs; felt a tug as he sliced the Achilles
tendon.
The man growled at the pain, tried to continue on, but his leg wouldn’t hold him
anymore. He dropped downward onto one knee, roaring under his breath, refusing to
give in. The Healer’s arm was still exposed from the attack and his enemy knew it,
lurching forward with his axe, but only managing to hit the Healer’s cloak behind him.
Pinned down, the Healer tried to escape, but the man grabbed his machete hand
and started beating it onto the ground, trying to break his grip. The Healer braced
himself with his other hand, his cut arm stinging sharply as disinfectant shifted in the
wound. His opponent was breathing heavily, and the blood from his leg was forming a
pool under them.
The Healer’s suit wailed: his heart rate burst forward, his wound seared, the blood
around him creeping ever closer… his vision blurred momentarily, shook his head
frantically. His hand was slammed into the ground, his index finger letting go slightly,
giving up under the beating. The man was panting heavily now, moving in for the kill.
When his hand was lifted off the ground again, the Healer used the clearance to
spin the blade around backhanded, and then, before he could lose the advantage,
plunged it into the man’s good thigh.
This time the man screamed, gripped down towards his legs, and choked as the
blade was pulled free. The Healer rolled to his knees and grabbed the axe’s handle,
pulled it from the floor and unbound himself. As the other man started to curl into a
ball on the floor, breathing heavily, the Healer got to his feet, holding his blade and the
axe loose by his side.
The man looked up at the Healer, eyes narrow with pain and anger. His eyelids
drooped slightly as the blood loss made him dizzy. The Healer watched him for a
moment, trying to calm his own heart.
Then with visible effort, the Healer swung the axe back and threw it across the
room, embedding it in a wall. He looked back to the man on the floor, shook his head
no.
Struggling painfully, his suit still calling out for him to stop, to slow down, the
Healer dragged his battered body towards the staircase.
270
* * *
Carey listened carefully from the centre of Daniels’ bedroom, cuffs half-latched,
frozen in fear. There were no noises anymore, but the silence was terrifying. Behind
him, Dmitri was rechecking clips for his pistol, repeating something to himself in
Russian that Carey couldn’t understand. Daniels was back on his bed, quiet, waiting
for word.
The dresser they’d propped in front of the door was thick, but it wobbled slightly
when Dmitri leaned on it, making Carey shiver. And then, there… a creak outside the
door, a soft pacing.
Carey moved further away from the door, back towards the bed. Dmitri reloaded
his gun and took aim, his eyes narrow with intense focus. Carey stumbled as he paced
backwards, never taking his eyes off the danger.
Knock.
Knock.
Knock.
No one moved, not even to check each other’s expressions. Carey felt miserably hot
in his mask, panic setting in, fumbled suddenly with the latches by his neck, but
couldn’t get to them. Dmitri made a quick sideways glance at him, obviously annoyed
at the distraction.
The latches were so tight, Carey couldn’t get a grip somehow… his fingers felt
numb… and — knock! — he pulled uselessly at a strap, the metal links clinking quietly
but so very deafening somehow. He heard a gurgle, gasped for breath, trying to take
the damn thing off!
“I can’t breathe…” he gasped. “I can’t breathe in this thing…”
Dmitri glared back, looking ready to waste a bullet on Carey. But instead, his eyes
were wide and he half-turned, his gun lowering, face blanching.
Carey thought something must be wrong with him, a sudden panic took hold. He
jerked around, trying to get free of his mask, but then he heard it again: the gurgling.
A gurgling noise…
271
He looked around and saw Daniels, flopped over on his side on the bed, blood
running out of his mouth, his ears, his nose… his eyes were bloody, crying red. He
gurgled again, a crimson bubble forming at his lips, and twitched slightly. Carey
gasped, staggered back.
“Oh my god…” he whispered. “His blood was clear. His blood was clear...”
Then there was a loud metallic crunch, and Carey saw a beaten blade knock the
doorknob out of the door, twist round and disappear. Dmitri wasted no time: he fired
into the door seven times, backing up slightly as he did so, putting distance between
himself and whatever might come through the door next.
There was a moment of silence, and the sound of the shots echoed in Carey’s ears.
Then, with a slow start: a bump, and then he watched with horror as the door started
to slide forward, pushing the dresser with it.
Dmitri moved into the corner of the room and started firing again, unloading his
clip into the door. He quickly re-loaded again and repeated the process with another
ten or so bullets before stopping, watching in horror as the door kept moving. The light
through the holes beamed through uninterrupted, and yet somehow, the door was still
moving…
Dmitri motioned for Carey to stay still, and he slowly moved up and to the right of
the door, staying flat against the wall, and aiming carefully at the space the intruder
would need to come through. He was safely out of sight, ready.
Carey realized with a jolt that he was not out of sight, and stumbled backwards,
next to Daniels’ limp body, and tried to stay still.
There was a moment of silence, no one moving, no sign of life from any quarter.
And then, slowly, Carey saw the tip of a long battered blade climb up along the crack
in the door, and across towards the light switch. He looked to Dmitri urgently, willing
him to see it, but it was beyond the door, out of his line of sight.
Carey swallowed slowly, and then the room went dark.
* * *
The Healer knelt down next to the door, wood chips on his back. Beyond, the room
was dark, silent. No movements, no shadows, no gleams or reflections. He held his
272
breath, tried to quiet his suit, but it screamed at him, warned him of the cuts and
bruises he already felt intensely.
He took a deep breath, closed his eyes a moment, and then dove through the door,
into the room. He rolled to his feet and stayed low, checking his surroundings: a large
bed, and on it, one man covered in blood… not breathing, and behind him… behind
him…
The Healer gasped, got to his feet as if in a daze, and stumbled forward. Across the
room was another Healer. The mask, the suit, it was unmistakable. He reached a hand
out towards his comrade, slow and dazed, and before he could react, he heard a crack,
and his arm erupted on him, sending him tumbling forward, his blood spraying out in
front, hitting the goggles on his mask.
Without thinking, he spun round with dazed ferocity and threw his machete out in
an arc. He stumbled to one knee, shocked by the sight of a thick and rough-looking
man, hidden behind the door, gun smoking slightly, the machete planted deep in his
chest.
“Shit,” he muttered in quiet Russian, and slumped back against the wall.
The Healer got back to his feet, turned towards the bed, towards the other Healer.
“How are you here?” he said, voice wavering with pain. “I am still on schedule. I
can still clear this up before the deadline…”
The other Healer shook his head urgently, climbed up on the bed, away, like he was
scared. The dead man slipped sideways, down off the bed, onto the floor. The Healer
stumbled to his knees next to the body, checked the mouth, the red eyes, the blood on
the shirt. He looked up at his comrade, faint.
“Was he the vector?” he asked, the room starting to spin.
The other Healer shook his head so urgently now, held his hand out to say no. And
then he spoke, and the Healer jerked backwards at the foreign sounds. He shook his
head as if to clear it, then heard an entirely different language again. And again,
painfully, a third time, and this time it made sense to him:
“Please don’t kill me!”
French. The Healer tried to stand, but slipped over, barely catching himself on the
bed.
273
“Who sent you here?” he asked in French, quiet, desperate.
The other Healer still seemed terrified, and it looked odd.
“I… I am from the Containment Office,” he said, his voice distorted through his
mask. “I was sent to arrest this man.”
“Arrest? What Office?”
“The British Containment Office,” came the reply. “In London. England.”
It took a moment, but the Healer laughed. He lowered his head and felt the world
go black, and then pulled himself back up to his feet. The British man moved further
away, terrified.
“What happened to this man?” the Healer said with increasing intensity.
“I don’t know,” said the other, shaking his head. “He just started bleeding… out of
his mouth, his eyes… it…there was no warning!”
The Healer looked at the dead man, saw the look of shock on his face. No warning.
“Did you inject him with anything?” he said, stepping closer to the British man.
“No! No, I just came and tested his blood. He had no diseases. Nothing that could
cause this!”
The Healer reached back towards his bag to remove his testing vials, and the other
man screamed, covering his head with his arms.
“There were others!” he shouted. “The wife and the stepdaughter!”
The Healer stopped, thought, then grabbed the British man by the neck, threw him
off the bed, onto the ground. He loomed over, felt the blood seeping inside his glove,
warm on his skin.
“Were they sick?” he boomed.
“The stepdaughter was. I don’t know what it was… it wasn’t registered…”
Then they heard it, both looking up towards the door at the same time. Distant,
probably on the stairwell, two voices calling to each other, the same words repeated.
“Police,” the Healer said quietly. “They will be here soon.”
He grabbed the man’s head in his large bloodied glove, lifting him up, making him
pay attention.
“Where did they go?” he demanded.
The British man feebly shook his head.
274
“I don’t know! Believe me, I don’t!”
The Healer tossed the bureaucrat to the ground, marched towards him, and the
man scattered back, standing, slipping and hitting the curtains of the far window, and
he pulled them round him for protection.
“Where did they go?” he asked again, bearing down.
The man cried, the sound so pitiful in his mask, and shook his head, holding on to
the curtain so tightly it nearly ripped free.
The Healer punched him in the throat, and the man bounced back into the window,
the glass cracking, and he dropped to his knees, gagging, trying to get air. The Healer
placed a menacing hand on the man’s head, squeezed, and then let the bitter fury
within him take over.
* * *
Sobotka saw the door first, riddled with holes, blood seeping through the hinged
corner. There were no lights on inside. She nodded to Crew, motioned him forward.
They stood on either side of the door now, guns at the ready, trying to get a sense
of what might be inside. Crew tried nudging the door a bit further open, but it was
blocked by something. They exchanged glances uncertainly.
“This is the police!” Crew shouted, shrugging to his partner. “If you move, we’ll kill
you.”
“Put your hands above your head!” added Sobotka, and Crew nodded
appreciatively.
There was a loud crash, and a pained scream, and then the sound of glass breaking,
falling, and Crew’s eyes opened so wide Sobotka had to put her hand out to steady him.
There was scraping, some clunking, and then, an uneasy silence, punctuated by gasps.
Sobotka took her hand from her gun and gave Crew a silent countdown:
3… 2… 1…
Crew moved into the room quickly, scanning left and arcing right, and Sobotka
covered him, checking for hostiles. There was a man covered in blood just by the bed,
the window was shattered out, the curtains fluttering in the wind, and the only thing
left was what Crew was now closing in on: the Healer, bloodied and beaten.
275
They circled him carefully, checking for weapons. He was on his knees, his cloak
soaked with blood, his hands in the air. He looked broken, almost sagging down,
swaying slightly, near death.
“Move a muscle and I’ll blow that mask off your head,” Crew said, completing his
circuit. Sobotka finished checking the room and joined him there.
“You’re under arrest,” Sobotka said sternly, and Crew shot her an angry look. She
squinted it away, motioned to the Healer. “I hope you’ve enjoyed yourself tonight,
because you’re going to pay for it for a long, long time.”
The Healer spoke, his voice weak, raspy almost, impossible to understand. He
gasped after a bit, stopped trying to talk, seemed too tired to continue. His arms were
slowly drifting downwards, his whole body collapsing in slow motion.
“Don’t move!” shouted Crew, and the Healer sat up straight again, shook his head
slightly.
“You’re being charged with, what… nine counts of murder?” Sobotka asked, her
gun not moving from its target.
Crew nodded to her.
“I’m going to check the window,” she said, and he nodded slightly again. She
backed up, keeping her gun ready, and as she reached the window, the curtains
brushing past her, she peered outside, saw it was snowing thickly now. She glanced
down onto the street below and saw a body there, red around it, lying distorted on the
ground.
“Make that ten counts,” she said, and looked back at the Healer.
He started to shake his head again, moved his hand down towards his chest, and
Crew backed up, kept his gun ready.
“Don’t do that!” he shouted angrily. “Don’t move any more!”
The Healer kept shaking his head, reached down, touched something on his belt,
and started pulling it forward, something rectangular, something…
“Don’t!” shouted Sobotka, but it was too late, he was pulling it up. Before she knew
what was happening, the dark room flashed brightly with gunfire, and she saw Crew’s
face flinching with satisfaction, fury and a bizarre kind of justice.
276
When the sound stopped, Crew and Sobotka stayed perfectly still and watched the
Healer crumple backwards onto the floor.
277
49
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
Eva tore into the box, dropping a long tube into her trembling hand, rushing back
into the living room where the incubator had finished booting. She popped open the
lid, pushed the tube into place, and reloaded the file she’d been working on, the cure
to Nuremberg-6.
“It doesn’t matter if you kill me again,” Rhodri called to her from his spot on the
couch, his black jacket and trousers blazing against the fabric. “I’ll be here in person
soon, won’t I?”
Eva ignored him, pulled up the cure, and planted a finger on the start button. The
incubator began to churn, humming softly.
Then, from the bathroom, Eva heard a smash, a scream, and she dashed away from
the table, down the hall. Rhodri paced ahead of her, trying to put himself in her way,
and she shoved past, dodging this way and that, but he wouldn’t leave her alone until
she slammed into the door frame, catching her breath.
Her mother lay on the ground, cowering against an invisible foe, broken mirror
shards everywhere.
“Mama!” Eva said, rushing over. “Mama, you need to be careful here.”
Her mother looked up with watery eyes, reached a hand towards her daughter, and
then swivelled around, turning on the tap to the bathtub. Blood from her cut arm
dripped into the stream, making the base briefly pink.
“Shh, mama. Come on, we need to get back now,” Eva said, lifting her up.
Rhodri stood by the door, leaning with a smirk on his face, faked a yawn.
278
“Won’t be long now,” he said as she passed. “I’m about ready to reach out and touch
you. Are you looking forward to it?”
Eva sat her mother down on the sofa, wrapping her arms in bandages she found in
the closet, pushed her head down gently, trying to urge her to sleep. Her mother
sighed, rolled back and forth like she was having a nightmare, though her eyes were
open.
“Somebody find Eva… my poor Eva…” she gasped all to herself.
Eva checked the progress on the incubator: nearly done. Warm hands once again
stroked her neck, her shoulders, and she hit them away, refusing to pay attention.
“I’ll be here soon,” Rhodri said softly. “In the flesh, where you can’t avoid me. Any
minute now…”
Eva squeezed her eyes shut, pushed the voice away in her mind. Then she heard a
knock at the door. A knock at the door! She froze, hands clasping the desk desperately.
She stayed perfectly still, listened, waited.
The knock returned, more urgent this time.
“Come on, Eva!” sang Rhodri. “I’m waiting! Let me in!”
Eva pressed her head against the door, afraid to look. She heard noises from
outside: feet shifting, pacing. She peered through the peephole, trembling, afraid. At
first she saw nothing… and then… she saw a woman, black and just as scared as she
was.
“Who is it?” Eva called out. The woman turned, pushed both hands against the
door, seemed so relieved to hear a voice.
“I’m from the hospital,” she replied. “My name is Fanta Anouma. I’m a doctor
there. We… I need your help.”
Eva slammed her head into the door, grit her teeth.
“Go away!” she shouted. “I can’t help you! Just go away!”
Anouma shook her head, seemed so desperate. She pushed a feeble fist against the
door.
“Please! I saw you with the incubator! I need your help! My brother is dying and
there’s no one else who will help him!”
Eva turned her head from the door, saw Rhodri. He shrugged, disinterested.
279
“What makes you think I can help you?” she called out, and there was a long pause
before Anouma answered.
“Maybe you can, maybe you cannot. But that incubator has the power to cure my
brother, and maybe stop the outbreak that has quarantined half the hospital. I have to
try!”
The door popped open a touch, Eva looked out nervously.
“What outbreak?”
“We don’t know. It seems to cause hallucinations. Bad ones. Virtual insanity in the
afflicted.”
“Hmm, sounds familiar…” hummed Rhodri, running a finger down Eva’s cheek.
Eva opened the door wide, ushered Anouma in, closed and locked them in. She
paced towards the incubator just as it finished processing, and it spat out another
container with the orange lid. Eva took it in her hand, held it up to Anouma.
“This will cure your outbreak,” she said, confident.
Anouma reached a cautious hand out, incredulous…
“But how did you…”
“Never mind that. I’ll make more. But first, I need to give this to my…” Eva turned,
saw the empty sofa, and nearly dropped the container. “Mama? Mama!”
She saw a streak of blood on the wall near the bathroom, and took off. She and
Anouma tripped into the bathroom to find Eva’s mother, face-first into the full
bathtub, arms floating loose at her sides.
“Oops!” Rhodri cackled.
“Mama!” Eva screamed, and pulled her mother out, laying her on the floor.
Anouma pushed in, leaned close and listened.
“She’s not breathing. Tilt her head.”
Eva pushed behind her mother’s neck, and Anouma began CPR, pumping,
breathing, pumping, breathing, until Eva lost track of it all, just sat back and cried
while her mother lay there, unconscious and fading further away.
Rhodri ran a hand down her thigh, and she pushed him.
“Leave me the fuck alone!” she screamed, and Anouma paused, looked at her,
concerned.
280
“Who are you…?” she began.
“Just help her,” Eva begged, filtering Rhodri out as best she could. “Please!”
Anouma pushed down on the chest again, and this time, suddenly, water bubbled
up and out of the mouth, and Eva’s mother choked, gasped, spat and was rolled to her
side, and she vomited bile and water onto the floor. Anouma rubbed her back, eyeing
Eva cautiously.
“Mama? Can you hear me? Are you okay?” Eva pleaded, down on her hands and
knees next to her pale mother.
“Eva?” came the reply. “Eva, my baby… she’s in the tub. Somebody has to find her,
please!”
Eva pushed her forehead into the ground, let out a rattled breath. When she looked
up, Anouma was staring at her seriously.
“You have the virus too,” she said. “You both do.”
Eva nodded weakly, said nothing.
“Are you sure this cure works?” Anouma asked.
“I’m sure,” Eva said seriously, getting to her feet. “And I can prove it to you.”
She ran out of the bathroom, down to her mother’s office, throwing junk aside until
she found a box of needles. She ran back to the bathroom, uncapped the container,
filled the syringe, and without a moment’s hesitation, injected her mother with the
cure.
* * *
Crew and Sobotka sat on the bed in the dead man’s room. Sobotka put her gun in
her holster, rubbed her temple, trying to massage out a pending headache.
“That went well,” she said, gloomy.
Crew snorted, then laughed. He got to his feet, stretched out and sighed loudly.
“Let’s do a quick check and get back after the girl,” he said. “I’m all done with my
case now, so we might as well do yours too. We can leave this mess to the crime lab.”
He bent down over the Healer’s body, peeled back bits of fabric, investigating the
body. Sobotka got to her feet, did a brief look around, nudged some things with a pen,
but didn’t touch anything.
281
“God it stinks in here,” she gagged. “Too much blood.”
She pushed out to the window, leaning into the night air, the curtains flapping at
either side.
“So you really think the Healer was behind this? I mean, he did kill a lot of people
here tonight, but if he’s going to do that, why would he bother making a virus at all?”
she asked, leaning out, looking at the body on the sidewalk again.
“Maybe he’s just a nut job,” said Crew, tossing bits of paper from the body,
obviously not concerned with disturbing the crime scene. “Anyone that dresses like
this has got to be at least a little bit nutty.”
Sobotka laughed, turned back to the room, but then did a double-take, spinning
round and looking out again… there, a glint on the drainpipe outside. She looked
further down, saw a clear streak of red down the drainpipe. The body in the snow. The
drainpipe again. They weren’t in the same direction.
“Those two don’t connect…” she muttered. “Uh, Crew… I think we have a problem
here.”
She turned round to her partner, stopped dead. Crew’s face was white. He looked
up at her, blinking.
“Oh yeah,” he said. “I think so too.”
He held out a small leather wallet, flipped open to a bright white card. Sobotka
couldn’t read it, but didn’t need to. In the top left corner was a very obvious Union
Jack.
* * *
The door exploded open, showering the room with fragments of wood, and the
Healer stumbled in, his arm bandaged with red-soaked gauze, clutched by a desperate
hand. Anouma got to her feet, pushing Eva back, away.
“I told you to stay in the stairwell!” Anouma said, urgently.
Eva shot a confused and horrified looked to the doctor.
“You’re with this monster?”
“Oh, this is getting good,” chuckled Rhodri.
The Healer shoved Anouma aside, into the refrigerator.
282
“Talking is too slow,” came his weakened voice, distorted and delirious. He walked
past Eva without effort, kneeling down at the edge of the sofa, where her mother was
laying, eyes open, almost alert. With his one good hand, he grabbed her by the chin,
tilted her head up, looked at her eyes. His hands were shaking, and although he was
bandaged heavily, he was still dripping bright red blood on the floor.
Eva stepped forward aggressively.
“Stop that!” she shouted in French, clenching her fists. The Healer turned his head
to her, and her confidence melted.
“Where is her blood?” he demanded. Eva glanced to Anouma, then back to the
Healer, and sneered.
“Why do you need it?” she asked, defiant.
He let go of her mother, lurched into a turn and bore down on Eva. She clenched
her jaw, kept her eyes on his, and held her ground. He looked at her, a blank fury
growling from his mask.
“I do not have time to play games,” he said, his voice faltering slightly. “Give me
her blood or I will take it myself. My way.”
Eva’s eye twitched.
“You leave her alone,” she said to him, a warning.
“I will do as I please,” he said, and Anouma stepped forward again to protest, but
he held his hand out to her to stop her. “Give me the blood now!”
“It won’t do you any good!” Eva yelled. “I’ve already cured her! There’s no virus left
for you to diagnose!”
Behind her, the incubator deposited another container of serum. Her eyes darted
towards it very carefully, trying not to show.
“Who is that for?” he asked her, ominous.
Eva watched him carefully, then made a mad dash for the incubator, grabbing
towards the container, trying to get it before… the Healer pulled her shoulder, threw
her onto the floor in the back of the kitchen. Her sprained wrist screamed out at her,
and she cradled it urgently.
The Healer loomed over her, pulling a grey device from his pack.
“Give me your arm or I will cut it off and test it that way,” he said.
283
Eva looked to Anouma, who seemed just as scared as she did. She held out her arm,
terrified, and the Healer placed the device to her. She felt a prick, a tug, and her blood
seeped away, into the machine that purred softly as it worked. He turned away,
watching it intently.
Eva got to her feet, shaky, and Rhodri was there beside her, whispering in her ear:
“The knife, Eva. The knife. Cut his heart out with a knife, like you would for me.”
Eva saw the knife there beside the rotting carrot, and she reached a cautious hand
over, slipped it away, kept it close. The Healer fell against the counter, stood straight
again, leaving a red mark where he’d been. He kept watching his display, waiting.
Oblivious to anything else.
Finally, the answer came, and Eva watched him carefully as his expressionless face
stayed locked down. Slowly at first, he started to shake his head more broadly, and
then she heard the creak of plastic in his hands, and he savagely ripped the empty vial
from the bottom and threw it across the room, into a mirror, which shattered loudly
onto the floor.
“A new strain!” he shouted, coughing at the force of his own voice.
Eva acted: she flipped the knife around in her hand and swung it in a quick, precise
arc at the Healer’s neck.
He caught her arm in mid-swing, did not even turn to look. Eva trembled at the
force of his rough glove on her wrist, her hand unable to move in for the kill. She
ground her teeth, tried to will it forward, but it was no use. She watched him, helpless.
He turned his head, looked at her calmly.
“I am done with games,” he said, and squeezed her arm, her hand releasing the
knife against her will. She didn’t make a sound; he made no more movements, just
stayed there, holding her tightly.
Anouma came to his side, put a hand on his shoulder, carefully, like she was scared
what he might do to her, too.
“Please don’t,” she said, her voice soft and trembling.
He shook his head, slowly, dizzily.
“No, she carries a new strain. It must be contained. I have my directives…”
284
“But I found the cure!” Eva exclaimed, tears in her eyes. “I’ve already saved two
people, and I can do more! You don’t need to do this!”
The Healer froze, he let go of her arm, but she didn’t move it, not sure what he
might do. He looked slowly to the incubator, then round at Eva, his bloody goggles still
a frightening sight.
“You cured the man Daniels?” he asked, and Eva’s breath stopped in her lungs.
“How did you…?”
“Did you cure him first?”
“Y-y-yes, maybe an hour ago…” she said, tense. “What did you do to him?”
The Healer looked away from her, stared at her mother, didn’t move.
“Nothing,” he said, and she breathed again, feeling less tension, less anxiety. “He
was already dead.”
The ground spun for Eva, and she fell backwards against the counter, slid down it,
put her head in her hands and tried to get her breathing back under her control. There
was a thumping in her ears and she couldn’t focus. The Healer stood over her, blood
dripping from his arm onto the ground next to her.
“Was he bleeding before you treated him?” he barked.
Eva had trouble focusing. She shook her head vaguely, unsure.
“I must see your cure,” said the Healer, his voice gaining strength. He pulled the
container from the side of the incubator, held it towards Eva. “Is this it?”
Eva didn’t look, just nodded blankly. She felt so cold.
He put the vial into his device and pushed another button, staring at the display as
if were the only thing in the world to see. Eva’s gaze shifted from the Healer to her
mother, then to Rhodri, who sat next to her, kissing her ear softly. Then… then back to
her mother. She was staring past her at the countertop, blinking, somehow different
than before.
Suddenly, the Healer dropped his device on the ground, and it cracked on impact.
He made no other moves, just stood there, his hand open, frozen. He spoke something
to himself, a hiss, that Eva had no concept of understanding. He clenched his fist,
lowered his head and shook it.
Anouma looked up to him, reached a hand up to his.
285
“What is it?” she asked.
He looked past her, at Eva.
“She will die too,” he said without inflection. “Same as Daniels. Massive
hemorrhaging. It cannot be stopped. Your cure is too effective.”
And with that, he straightened himself up, groaned, and grabbed the last of the
serum off the table. He grunted as he slid it into his belt, and then with a deep breath,
lurched towards the door, his body giving out on him so quickly he looked like he might
disintegrate at the threshold. Eva leapt to her feet, started after the Healer, shouting:
“Stop! You have to do something!”
The Healer turned, his breaths uneven and wheezy while he looked at her.
“I have no solutions,” he said quietly. “Only the one you do not want.”
Eva watched the Healer as he stood there, patiently delaying his own death for her,
and she nodded to him, horribly.
“End it,” she pleaded quietly. “Please.”
The Healer nodded gravely, turned and stumbled back to the counter. He removed
a blue pouch from his pack and placed it on the countertop and unrolled it carefully,
leaving bloody prints all over it. Eva looked away, and Rhodri moved in to kiss her. She
closed her eyes at it, and felt the brush of his beard on her lips, the softness. She buried
her head down, gasped for air, trying to block out whatever sounds she might hear.
“Eva,” said her mother quietly. “It’s done, Eva.”
She opened her eyes, blinked. Her mother sat on the sofa, a gentle smile on her
face, her arm still out where the Healer had killed her. She motioned for Eva to come,
and she obeyed, sitting on the sofa too, as if in a dream. Even Rhodri stayed distant,
giving them space.
“Mama, I’m so sorry…” she sobbed, pushing her head into her mother’s arms. “I’m
so sorry…”
“Shhh now, Eva. It’s not your fault.”
Her mother put her hand on the side of Eva’s face, brushed her cheek softly, and
she met her eyes, calm and forgiving.
“I’ll be fine,” she said, her smile radiant, comforting. “I’m just glad I got to say
good-bye first.”
286
Eva cried, gasped for air.
“I should have said no,” Eva said darkly. “I should have trusted my instincts. I knew
this wouldn’t work. I didn’t know what I was doing, and it killed you! I killed you!”
Her mother closed her eyes now, seemed to be feeling something, her smile faded
slightly. But she spoke:
“The reason… the reason I kept Richard from hiring you, Eva, was because I knew
how terrible it can be to make mistakes in this field. It’s not what I’d wish upon you.
It’s not what I’d wish upon anyone. And you’ve already suffered enough for the
mistakes you’ve made in life.”
Her mother began to shake. A low, subtle shake, but it shook her whole body, and
Eva held tight.
“Eva,” she gasped. “You did well. I’m proud of you. Don’t let my death crush your
spirit. You have to live on… you have to learn from your mistakes and do better…
promise me…”
Eva cried, nodded.
“I promise, mama,” she whispered.
“Good,” said her mother, a slight smile on her face, but her eyes seeing nothing.
“Good.”
And then she jerked slightly, then again, backwards onto the back of the sofa, and
started to seize more violently, her eyes rolling back in her head and a few strained
gasps coming from her mouth. Eva tried to hold her, somehow stop it, the sounds
ripping her apart. And then her mother calmed suddenly, she exhaled, and Eva did
too, her lungs aching from the endless pause.
No one moved for a moment, and the sound of the room took time to come flooding
back. Eva’s hands were shaking, and she squeezed them together to try and regain her
composure.
She looked to the Healer, who stood by the door, leaning on it for support.
“I need to destroy that cure,” he said. “It’s too dangerous.”
He shook his head, took a step backwards in the open space of the doorway.
“Make a new version,” he said, swaying slightly. “You can stop the outbreak if you
hurry. Check the cure against your own blood and you’ll see.”
287
“But what about…”
“I will keep this one,” he said, and it was not up for discussion. “I have one last use
for it.”
288
50
1 PISECKÉHO, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
NOVEMBER 30
“What are you going to do?” Anouma called to the Healer as he made his way down
the back stairwell at Eva’s building.
He lost his balance briefly, hit the wall and left a dark red smear. He put his other
foot down to the next step, but it missed the edge and he stumbled down, landing on
his weakened elbow, and the spots overtook his vision. He shook his head again and
again, trying to regain control.
He got to his feet, used his good arm to guide himself down the steps, watching his
footing carefully.
“What are you doing?” Anouma shouted, stopping a few steps up.
The Healer came to a rest, turned to face her, but missed her face.
“I am going to cure your brother.”
* * *
The blood trail led to the front of a building Sobotka and Crew knew well, so when
they came within a few houses, they leapt out of Crew’s car and sprinted the rest of the
way, guns drawn. An old woman stood in the hallway around the corner, staring at
fragments of a broken door. She was dressed in a night gown, slippers, seemed
confused and concerned.
“I haven’t called you yet,” she said to them.
“Go back inside, ma’am,” said Sobotka, edging closer to the door.
289
“She really is a nice girl,” the woman said, her mind switching gears and tones
suddenly. “Just like her mother. A real beauty.”
Sobotka nodded to the woman, trying to be patient, but Crew had no tact left: he
grabbed her night gown and dragged her back, threw her into her apartment, and
closed the door. The two of them stayed by the broken door, guns ready.
“Police!” Sobotka called. “Keep your hands in the air and do not move!”
“I’m alone!” cried Eva from inside, and they checked each other, confused.
Sobotka peeked around the corner cautiously, then led herself and Crew in, making
a sweep of the rooms. Eva’s mother lay dead on the sofa, blood all over the kitchen, a
knife, footprints and water everywhere… and there sat Eva at the coffee table, hands
flying madly across the trackpad of an incubator.
“Ms Kolikov, what are you—”
“Listen,” Eva said, eyes glued to the screen, “I need you to shut up. You can arrest
me and beat me up all you like, but I’ve got to finish what I’m doing.”
Sobotka put her gun away, edged around the side. Crew kept his weapon out, but
aimed at the floor, frowning.
“What are you doing?”
“There’s an outbreak at the hospital, I have to cure it before it spreads.”
“How do you know about the outbreak?” Sobotka asked.
“One of the doctors told me. Now seriously, shut up so I can concentrate!”
Sobotka slid over next to Crew, spoke in a hushed voice.
“She’s telling the truth?”
“Could be that Anouma woman I was looking for. She’s a friend of the Healer’s.
Still, Kolikov and an incubator can’t be a good combination.”
Sobotka watched Eva a moment, twitched an eye.
“Call in to the hospital and see what their status is. I don’t trust her, but I don’t
want to shut this down if it can help.”
Crew nodded reluctantly, headed to the hall with his phone. Sobotka crouched next
to Eva, watched her working. A tourniquet was still strung tight around her arm, a
small drip falling around to her elbow. Eva was handling a small vial of blood,
searching the side of the machine, probing with shaking hands.
290
“I can’t figure out where this thing goes in…” she cursed, slamming her bandaged
arm on the table in frustration and then cursing some more.
Sobotka took the vial from her, darted around the side of the machine, saw a port
there, and pushed the vial in. It clicked solidly, then the incubator rotated the blood
out of sight, and began to purr.
“Thanks,” Eva said, eyes darting wildly. “I’m having a hard time focusing right
now.”
An alert popped onto the screen:
CUSTOM BLOOD SAMPLE DETECTED.
OVERRIDE LOCALE SETTINGS?
Eva accepted the change, and threw herself into cracking the virus code once more.
* * *
The Healer burst into Adjobi’s room, Anouma close behind, and came to a sudden
stop at the base of the bed. Adjobi sat up, wary and weary and somehow sicker than
before as the Healer pulled another needle from his bag and started filling it with
serum. His arm was stiff and awkward, and he struggled to hold himself steady.
“Do you know what this is?” he asked as he filled the syringe. “This is the cure to
the disease you sent me after.”
Adjobi seemed surprised by this, tried to sit up.
“Really…” he said, his eyes wide with curiosity, but still fear.
“Yes,” said the Healer, pulling the needle free and holding it ready. “It has killed
two people already. Let us try for three.”
He plunged the needle into Adjobi’s arm and pushed the plunger down, and Adjobi
groaned loudly, jerked suddenly but couldn’t fight the strength of the Healer.
“No!” Anouma screamed, pounding on the Healer’s back, until he was done, pulled
the needle free, and stepped back. Anouma collapsed to the floor, weeping.
The Healer felt a powerful release, he stumbled, caught on to the railing at the side
of the bed, and leaned on it, transferring all his reliance there, all the strength he’d
291
been drawing suddenly gone. His suit was whining in his ear that he was too excited,
but he already knew.
Adjobi looked down at the needle mark in his arm, the blood dripping around and
onto the sheets, and then looked up at the Healer with a calm stare. And then, ever so
slightly, he smiled.
Anouma saw her brother, saw his expression, and her crying trailed off. She got to
her knees, took his hand, but he pulled it away, his smile turning into a smirk.
The Healer stumbled, held on to the bed tighter.
“You have no vector,” he said to Adjobi, faint and tired. “You are the vector.”
Anouma looked from Adjobi to the Healer, then back, her crying stopped, her
mouth ajar, trying to understand what was going on.
“What are you talking about?” she gasped. “He’s sick, he was infected by… by
someone else… he’s the victim! And you’ve killed him!”
The Healer didn’t listen to her. He was watching Adjobi, saw the sickly man start
to laugh, laugh so awkwardly it was painful. And then, finally, when Adjobi calmed
himself enough, he looked at the Healer with intense anger.
“You are clever,” he said. “But I would bet you’re too late.”
* * *
Crew burst back in the room, eyes wide with fear or excitement.
“Sestak just passed down the order… they’re going to gas the hospital! We’ve got
to move!”
Eva and Sobotka both gaped.
“They’re what?”
“Sestak’s afraid of a major outbreak across the city. He’s full-on paranoid from the
sound of it. They’ve sealed the doors and the army is moving in to gas and burn the
place down. The captain’s ordered us there to provide backup. In case anyone makes
it outside.”
“Are they insane?” Sobotka yelled, getting to her feet furiously. “All those people…
there are over ten thousand people in there!”
292
Eva kept moving blocks around, pushing the cure further, watching the antibodies
in her blood react horribly to every option she threw at it.
“I can fix this,” she said, mostly to herself. “Just give me five minutes. I can fix it,
and we can stop the outbreak. I just need five minutes of quiet. Please.”
Sobotka looked to Crew, who didn’t seem keen on the idea. She looked back to Eva.
“You’ve got five minutes,” she said.
Eva nodded, then flinched, jabbed her elbow out and to the side.
“Fuck off!” she spat.
Sobotka and Crew took a cautious step backwards.
“What’s going on?” Sobotka asked.
Eva didn’t look up, rolled her eyes as she worked.
“I’m gonna say some strange things for the next little while,” she said darkly. “Don’t
worry about it. It’s not going to be around for much longer.”
Eva ran the test, saw the familiar shapes falling and disappearing as her cure broke
down Nuremberg-6. But instead of leaving no traces, the screen warned her:
ANTIBODY CONFLICT. SEE REPORT.
She clicked through, and her jaw dropped open at the sight.
“Oh shit,” she gasped.
“What?” demanded Sobotka. “What’s wrong?”
“The cure, it leaves stupid little fragments in the blood, stuff that doesn’t do any
harm. Simple compounds. See? These little grey squares. They shouldn’t impact
anything. They didn’t impact anything when I ran this before.”
Sobotka leaned in, couldn’t see what Eva was seeing.
“So what’s different?”
“There’s something in my blood that’s not in the incubator’s base profile.
Something I’ve got that isn’t standard, or wasn’t standard when they made this thing.
Something my mother, Richard, and probably you and everyone else in this city…
something we’ve all got in common. The cure is making things worse! It’s too perfect…
it’s a trap, and I fell for it!”
293
* * *
The Healer threw the syringe across the room, tried to fight the urge to strangle
the man.
“This is no game!” he shouted.
“No it isn’t!” growled Adjobi, trying to sit up. “This is far too sad to be a game! You,
all of you, worrying over these people, with their home-made sickness, hoping to God
that you can save them, find them a cure! This is no game… this is a farce! And you
need to see why!”
Anouma gasped, let go of Adjobi, looked to the Healer, her face so overcome she
had no expression. The Healer composed himself, stepped back from the bed, had to
focus.
“You created a virus, designed it brilliantly,” he said. “So the cure, the treatment,
would be lethal.”
Adjobi smiled proudly now.
“It was not easy,” he said simply.
“But it won’t hurt you,” the Healer growled. “Because your blood is missing the
compound it needs to kill. The compounds that survive attach to something already
there, create a new virus with them. A deadly one. A terrible one. What is it? What are
you targeting?”
Adjobi closed his eyes, rested his head back, and took a deep breath. Anouma was
now further away, looking shocked, confused.
“Four years ago,” said Adjobi, his voice weaker now, distant. “Four years ago I met
a girl. Beautiful woman, so perfect. So perfect I knew I must win her, marry her, keep
her close. You met her, Anouma. Do you remember? Nowa?”
Anouma nodded, like in a dream.
“We were happy,” he said, his eyes still closed. “For a time. And then, one day, one
day she got sick, and the doctors told us: AIDS. Can you believe it? AIDS! But I… I
don’t know, we were so young, so naïve, we thought it would be all right. There were
drugs, weren’t there? Treatments? They’d had them for years, hadn’t they? We’d be all
right.”
294
Adjobi opened his eyes, looked straight into the soul of the Healer.
“She died,” he said, his voice a whisper. “she died of AIDS, a disease dead outside
Africa, all because the vaccine stopped being made. It wasn’t vital anymore! There were
new threats! Greater threats! And my Nowa died in her bed for nothing! Nothing but
weakness and greed and throwing a whole continent to the dogs!”
Adjobi pointed a trembling finger at the Healer.
“A disease is not dead until it is wiped from the face of the whole planet.”
He clenched his hand into a fist, shook it slightly, and exhaled, his long, painful
secret finally gone.
“The cure targets the AIDS vaccine,” gasped the Healer.
* * *
Rhodri held her tight, caressing her body as he nuzzled her ear. Eva didn’t even
flinch, pushing blocks around, watching the fallout, watching the changes as they shot
across the screen. Stroke, paralysis, kidney failure… they came and went as fast as her
hands would move.
“Why don’t you give it up so we can have some fun?” Rhodri whispered. “I can
make it worth your while.”
“Stop yakking. I’m busy here.”
He cupped her breasts in his hands, kissed her neck.
“I wonder how long until you can’t see the screen anymore, and you’re mine
forever?” he said, licking gently.
Eva dropped a blue square into place, and then the results came through…
WARNING:
PATIENT DEVELOPS MILD FEVER
She grinned, looked Rhodri clear in the face, kissed him back.
“Say goodnight, fucker.”
She ran off, down the hall, into her mother’s office, and pulled out the other two
boxes of refill tubes, got halfway back to the living room when she noticed they were
295
damp at the bottom. She stopped midway, mouth gaping, dumped the contents. The
tubes were nearly empty. Cracked. Leaking. Lost.
“Oh no,” he gasped as Rhodri held her from behind.
“What’s wrong?” Sobotka asked, getting to her feet. “What are those?”
“The refills… we don’t have any more refills. I can only make one more batch of
this stuff.”
“How many can it treat?” asked Crew.
Eva lowered her head, felt Rhodri on her neck, felt a shiver.
“Just one. The fix is contagious in its current form, but there’s no way we’d cover
everyone fast enough. There’s just no way…”
They stood in silence. Rhodri held her tight, so tight, she felt it hard to breathe. The
room started to grey around her, disappear into her mind like a dream she was waking
from. She stumbled forward, onto her knees, and Rhodri was before her, kneeling too,
white shirt undone, biting his lip, his dead eyes shining with glee.
“Can you feel it, Eva? Can you feel the end? It’s coming. I can tell it’s coming. Soon
you’ll be mine forever.”
“I’ve still got the last dose. I can use it and burn you alive.”
“You’re not going to use the last dose on yourself, are you? And let all those people
die?”
Eva stared him dead in the eye, and he kissed her. She tried to fight it, but it was
so… so… she felt herself kissing back, felt his hands on her cheeks his body pressing
against hers, and she shuddered, let him run his lips down her neck.
“Can you feel it?” he sang softly. “There’s love in the air…”
And she paused.
“The air!” she gasped, and shoved him off, scrambling to the table, pushing past
the grey, dancing fingers on the trackpad as he pulled her waist, tried to draw her back.
She scoured the screen, found it under the ‘Advanced’ menu… down at the bottom…
“Make Aerosolized”.
* * *
296
“Every man, woman and child in Europe, the Americas, the East... they’re all
targets!” boomed the Healer. “You would kill a whole world of people out of revenge?”
“Their suffering’s just as real to me, as mine is to them.”
The Healer didn’t say anything for a moment.
“Adjobi…” said Anouma, stepping closer. “you couldn’t…”
“No?” spat her brother, giving her an icy stare. “No? I would gladly fear the poison
I made if it meant I’d been protected like the others in this wretched city! I’m dying of
AIDS, Fanta, and there is no one in the world that will help me! Oh, I made the trigger,
but they made the weapon! Let them burn, I say! Let them all burn!”
The Healer’s temper flared suddenly. He smashed one of the heart monitors
against the wall so hard its casing shattered, and he threw the wreckage to the ground
savagely.
“You made me your accomplice!” he shouted. “Kwong’s blood was tainted too! You
set a trap and let me poison my own people!”
Adjobi laughed a bit, looked at the Healer, sickly again.
“Don’t worry,” he said. “You’re not alone. I’ve been working towards this for
months.”
Anouma gasped, trembling.
“What do you mean? I thought we were here to help, Adjobi… I thought we were—
”
“Oh, we were. And at first, I was like you, Fanta. I thought this was the most noble
calling in the world. I knew my time would run out, but I wanted to die doing
something good for the world. I had no regrets.
“But then one day, I met a man with a different sort of mission. He wasn’t content
to just treat the symptoms, he wanted to cut the viruses down, here, in the field. We
worked together, this Daniels and his partner. We found things nobody else would see
for months, and we fixed them, Fanta. We saved so many lives.
“He had an incubator, and as I learned to use it, I realized I had it in my power to
cure my AIDS, to patch your blood and save us both. Daniels was a pharmaceutical
executive, so he’d have access to the vaccines. I asked him over and over again, and
297
finally he told me he couldn’t help… he wouldn’t help, because it would get him caught,
and our whole operation would fall apart.”
The Healer bowed his head, drifting. Anouma backed further away, terrified.
“I couldn’t stand it, Fanta,” Adjobi continued. “I couldn’t stand that he had the cure
there, within his reach, and he denied it to me. It was too much. So I began learning
the second function of the incubator, learned how to mix compounds badly, learned
how to create poisons out of vaccines. I produced flawed results at the start, but I
learned and improved.
“Their agents abroad, I took their compounds and made subtle tweaks. I broke
their solutions and sent them back, ready to kill. Then they came to me, they asked:
‘How did this happen, Adjobi? How did it go so wrong?’, and I pleaded ignorance, said
all was well when I saw the files last.
“Really, I was hoping Daniels would do as he promised, send my cures back to his
company’s database, have them distributed around the world in one of those
godforsaken boosters. Think of the carnage. Think of the justice!”
“That is not justice!” roared the Healer, staggering backward. “That is genocide!”
“Oh, that’s rich, coming from you! I’m not half the monster you are! Even when the
outbreak downstairs claims half the city, my conscience is like untouched snow next
to yours!”
“The outbreak…” Anouma gasped. “That was you?”
“It’s not a long walk to the supply room, Fanta,” he smiled. “And all it takes is a few
millilitres of the virus to do the trick. In the coffee of a co-worker, a nip in the arm, a
small prick in the IV bag.”
Anouma lowered her head, crying now.
“This was all supposed to take a very different path,” Adjobi said, sighing. “But I
knew my time was running out, and Dr Kolikov saw the signature from those fools at
the university in my work. The ones I hired to cover my tracks, and it lead her right to
me. She started to investigate… I had to change things. I admit, I was afraid I wouldn’t
be able to see this through to the end… but I didn’t expect I’d get such a gift as you,” he
said to the Healer, who stared at him, ragged. “You gave me a unique opportunity to
become a very powerful vector.”
298
He grinned uncontrollably.
“I hope I will live to see the cure,” he said, faking his earlier, weaker voice. “Oh,
how I pray I will see the cure.”
The Healer stepped back from the bed, looked at Anouma, then back at Adjobi. He
faltered, fell to his knees, slipped forward, but clung to the bed rails, pulled himself up,
sliding the blue pouch out on the bed.
“I’m ready now,” Adjobi said, lifting his arm up to the Healer. “Finish your duty
before you die, Healer. I am ready to go.”
* * *
The car slid sideways through the turn, almost hitting a lamp post, Crew spinning
the wheel furiously, punching the gas, trying to get back on track. Ice shot off the
windshield and into the buildings around them, smashing into a bright mist.
“Slow down, idiot!” shouted Sobotka, gripping the passenger seat door desperately.
“It’s November!” Crew yelled. “I don’t slow down till January!”
Between them, Eva sat, doubled over, hands on the sides of her face, pulling her
skin down madly. Rhodri was curled around her back, arms moving fluidly over her
body, his mouth across her skin, everywhere, exposed or not, drawing her into the grey
again. She trembled, muttered into her lap, soft and urgent.
“It’s all in my head. It’s not real, I know it’s not real.”
“Are you sure?” Rhodri asked smoothly as he licked her neck. “I seem real to me.”
“You’re dead. I killed you, and you’re dead.”
“Richard said I was still alive. And I’m coming for you. You should be happy…”
He held her tighter, and she felt warm, shuddered, leaned her head back and let
him kiss her shoulders, her neck, feeling so warm… She squeezed her eyes shut to push
him away. She heard nothing but him, but refused to lose sight of the world around
her.
The car shot forwards, around another turn, and they saw it: barricades ahead.
Four soldiers in full masks, guarding the entrance to the hospital. Sobotka winced.
“Is there another way in?” she asked.
“Yeah,” said Crew, switching gears. “Faster.”
299
The soldiers didn’t have time to react. The Aston-Martin shot through the singlebeam barricade, throwing wood and yellow lights in all directions. Crew didn’t check
the mirror to see what they’d done, he just pushed his foot straight to the floor they
careened into the old emergency bay, skidding in a large arc, coming to a halt right
next to the doors. Sobotka knocked her head on the car frame as the inertia left, looked
to Crew with wide-open eyes.
“Don’t do that again.”
They got out of the car, hearing shouts in the distance as the soldiers gave chase,
grabbed Eva by the arm and pushed into the foyer. Crew motioned to the great wooden
doors, wrapped in yellow tape, a padlock across the handles.
“Shit, they’re competent all of a sudden!” he cursed.
“Stand back!” Sobotka yelled, pulled her gun out, took aim and the padlock
exploded off the doors. Crew wrenched them open, stumbled into the mass of
hysterical and dying patients, all clawing off their beds, trying to escape, falling apart
at the sights and sounds of their worst nightmares. Sobotka staggered back, watching
a nurse flail desperately as five bloodstained figures tried to drag her into a side room,
wailing madly.
Bastien stormed towards them, mask nearly off his face, bloody slashes on his
cheeks.
“You fools! Get out of here! It’s not safe!”
Crew held him back before the old doctor could reach them.
“They’re going to torch this place, doc. You know that, right?”
Bastien barely registered the news, nodded gravely.
“If they must. We’re ready to make that sacrifice.”
“Well I’m not!” shouted Sobotka, and then a staggering patient threw her off her
feet and onto the ground.
Eva stumbled forward, Rhodri tugging at her pants, punched him away, but
missed. She gasped, half-seeing the mess in the room. A lunatic like the beast from the
university came at her, and she hit him across the side of the head, and unlike Rhodri,
he collapsed down, scampering away. She fell onto her back, felt Rhodri climb on top
of her, lean over her, feet pushing her legs apart.
300
“We never did have that last afternoon off,” he said, his voice quiet yet somehow
louder than the pandemonium around them. “But now’s as good a time as any…”
Eva tried to turn her head from him, but he held her jaw with clutching hands,
slammed her skull down onto the floor once as he kissed her, clawing angrily, holding
her hostage. She fought, but he pinned her hand, kept her legs spread, and she couldn’t
win, she couldn’t… she…
… she saw them.
“Sobotka!” she yelled through Rhodri, through everything, though she couldn’t see
anything but him. “The fans! Use the fans!”
Sobotka pushed past Bastien, running to the row of switches by the door, pushed
them all on. The lights above came to life, bathing them in a warm glow… and then,
slowly, creaking, all the overhead fans began to move… swirling faster and faster.
Eva pulled the container from her pocket, fighting Rhodri’s strong grip, held it out
with a trembling gaze towards Crew, who kept an uneasy distance, not understanding
what she was seeing. She pushed against Rhodri, knocked him off, held the container
up further.
“Hurry…” she whispered, and he took it.
“Sobotka!” Crew yelled, twisting the cap off the container, hands trembling.
“Ready!”
“Go!” she called, and he threw the container into the air, over the beds, into the
centre of the room. Sobotka watched it float, almost weightless, for what seemed like
an eternity. And then, like a dandelion in the wind, the white dust inside began flowing
out and into the air.
* * *
The Healer took a weak step back.
“Kill me!” Adjobi screamed. “I’m dead anyway! Do it!”
The Healer steadied himself, hand gripping the blue pouch, the deadly serum.
He stared evenly at Adjobi.
“No,” he said, and the sick man froze. “Mercy is not my commission.”
301
Adjobi started forward, but the Healer shoved him back into bed with a bloodied
hand, suddenly strong again, suddenly dominating. Terrifying.
“You will die here in this bed, as slow as your disease takes you. I will not be an
instrument in your game any longer. I will not be an instrument for anyone’s lunatic
fantasies!”
Anouma stepped towards him, hand out, pausing…
“You will die. Your end will come slowly, and painfully, and there will be nothing
you can do to ease your suffering. Because when all your caretakers are dead and
buried by the carnage you wrought, there will be no one left to help you.”
And with that, the Healer turned, and walked towards the door. He heard a quick
sob, and then Anouma ran after him, catching him in the hallway. She put a hand on
his shoulder, and he let himself be turned around.
“I must warn my people about Kwong’s blood,” he gasped, faltering. “I cannot
stand your tears now.”
She looked at him so sadly. She placed a hand on his chest and lowered her head,
and whispered to him: “I am sorry for what he did. I am so sorry…”
The Healer took a deep breath, and the pain all over his body gripped him like a
dull vice.
“You are not his master,” he said. “Do not let him be yours. I must go now, before…
before…”
He slipped onto the floor, his vision blacking.
* * *
The dust caught the light as it fell in swirls around the room. Eva saw it through
Rhodri’s strong embrace, and she smiled at it, breathed in heavily, smelled his sweat,
the smell of that summer in Nuremberg.
He saw her smile, and his expression changed, angrier, deranged. He wrapped a
callous hand around her face, lifted her head off the ground, even as his other hand
stroked her gently.
“You like this?” he asked. “Is this good for you?”
“Yes…” she whispered. “Yes, it’s good.”
302
He slammed her head down on the ground, leaned in close.
“Then why did you leave me? Why did you kill me, Eva? Why?”
He slammed her again, but the pain passed through her, and she started to laugh.
His hands were becoming fainter, his face less opaque. He noticed it, too, grabbed her
head with both hands, leaning in close, furious, nose to hers.
“Eva!” he seethed, then suddenly his expression changed. Desperate, scared,
alone… he started to cry, stroked her cheeks gently, rested his head on her chest,
holding her, holding…
“Eva, please… please, I love you. Please don’t do this… please don’t…”
She lay there, unmoving, felt his hands dissolving, the breaths fainter, the weight
of him on her melting away.
“Eva, I love you… I love you…” he said, his voice a whisper.
“I know,” she said. “I loved you too.”
Just then, a patient fell over her, legs smashing her ribs, and she rolled to her side,
the sound of the room coming back full-force. The screams had been replaced by quiet
whimpers, calls of pain, strong commands from the medical staff as they ran through
the aisles, putting things back in order. Eva got to her feet, unsteady, and was caught
under the arm by Sobotka.
“You okay?” she asked, and Eva nodded.
“It’ll take a while to go away completely. Plus the fever. But I’m fine. Thanks.”
Crew strode up, tossing a blood-stained patient out of his way as he went. He
surveyed the damage.
“So I guess it worked,” he said. “We knocked the disaster down a notch.”
“I guess so,” Eva smiled. “If you happen to see the Healer or Dr Anouma again, tell
them thanks for me.”
Crew nodded agreeably, staring off into the back of the room. His gaze shifted back
to Eva, at the same time Sobotka let her go, frowning seriously.
“Them,” they said together.
* * *
303
The Healer pushed himself to his feet, staggering forward, Anouma pulling him
back, or trying to help, or… he stumbled again. Then, down the hallway two lights
trained themselves on him. He couldn’t understand the words, but knew what they
meant. He stayed perfectly still, swaying slightly.
Anouma called to them in Czech; they yelled something back, and she held out both
her hands towards them, but they dragged her away.
They grabbed him by the back of his suit and threw him, face-first into the wall.
They kicked his legs and he fell to his knees, his arms pulled up — he coughed out a
gagging cry as his shoulder was moved — and he heard the sound of a gun clicking
behind his head.
There was more talking, Anouma’s, and the armed woman, and a deeper, angry
man. Anouma was frantic in her foreign tongue; she was telling them all the deeds he’d
done, all the killing, about her brother’s plight. He blinked slowly, nearly fell.
“Forgive me,” he said softly in his native language. “May there be future
generations left to curse my name… please…”
And then the Healer felt another grip under his arm, and he was lifted from the
ground, turned towards the stairwell, and shoved so suddenly he fell onto the floor, his
body exploding with pain, it was as if he’d been shot again. He stayed there for a
moment, his suit deafening.
But now the silence was different. He heard his own mask, heard the breaths he
took, but nothing else. The sounds of the two police were distant, were fading away,
and when he opened his eyes, their lights were gone, too. He lay there in the dark, felt
his heart beating.
And when he blinked again, Anouma was leaning over him, her hand on his back,
rubbing him gently. Her eyes were wet, but the look on her face was not disgust…
concern. Concern?
“Can you walk?” she asked quietly.
He nodded, slowly.
“I told them,” she said, her voice wavering, her awful confession reluctantly coming
forth. “I told them you need to warn your people. About Adjobi’s virus.” She bit her lip,
304
tried to keep from crying, refused to look back towards her brother’s room. “I told them
why.”
She helped him to his feet, and he started towards the stairwell, slipping in his own
blood. He stumbled again, and she tried to catch him, but the weight was too much,
and he fell down, face hitting the floor… he heard her around him, calling him back,
but his vision blurred, echoed softly, and the darkness slowly soaked him away.
305
DECEMBER 1
51
OUTSIDE PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC
DECEMBER 1
At the edge of the field was an old wooden fence, a set of splintered logs stacked on
top of each other, marking a passive border no one respected anymore. The snow was
untouched, smooth and perfect, a light blue colour in the shade that was the hue of a
perfect summer’s day. The kind that seemed so alien now.
The winter sky was grey, clouds slowly ebbing into the west. And in the distance,
down by the city, the smoke reached upwards, out of sight.
Eva watched the scene a while longer, the cold on her cheeks freezing the bandage
she now wore. She squinted at the brightness of the day, adjusted her backpack over
one shoulder. She reached into her pockets, pulled her mitts out and put them on, the
thick wool tingling on her fingertips like a wave of needles.
She looked back to Sobotka and Crew, their car still humming quietly behind them,
the windshield fogged.
“Thanks for the ride,” she said, smiling weakly.
Sobotka didn’t make eye contact, looked off into the distance like there was
something to see. She sniffed loudly, uncomfortable.
“Anything to get criminals out of town,” she said, then glanced over, smirked.
Behind her, Crew shivered, stomped his feet in the snow, trying to give a hint. His
breath flowed out of his mouth like smoke.
“What about Pyotr?” Eva asked.
“You want us to fetch him for you?”
Eva thought, smiled.
306
“No, no that’s all right.”
“It’s what I figured,” Sobotka snorted. “Besides, in the prison he’s at, he’s
somebody else’s girlfriend now anyway.”
Crew chortled.
Sobotka reached into her bag and pulled out a brown paper bag, taped shut along
the top. She handed it over to Eva, tentative.
“You sure you don’t need anything else?” she asked. “I think we owe you more than
this.”
Eva held the bag tightly, shrugged.
“I think we can call it even,” she said, stepping backwards a step.
Sobotka nodded, turned and lead Crew towards the car. She stopped, glanced over
her shoulder, watched Eva leaving into the snowy fields.
“Take care of yourself, Ms Kolikov!” she yelled. “You’re more useful than you look!”
Eva said nothing, just smiled.
As the sound of the car receded into the background, Eva opened the bag again,
pulling out the contents as she walked down the train tracks, off towards a distant
farm. It was all there, and she nodded happily.
A sketchbook, some pencils. A photo of her mother. A beginner’s guide on growing
your own food.
* * *
“Home to Green Four,” came the voice, a distant crackle among the static waterfall.
“Your signal is faint, Green Four.”
“My suit is damaged.”
“What is your status? Have you located LS-411?”
Static.
“LS-411 was a trap.”
“Green Four, please repeat.”
“It was a trap. My earlier samples are also tainted. Do not release treatments for
those samples.”
Static.
307
“Green Four, our engineers discovered the flaw in your earlier samples. They were
discarded.”
Wind.
“Green Four, what is your status? Can you make the journey back?”
Cold. Bitter cold.
“No,” he said. “I am done.”
And before he heard more, he dropped the phone into the snow, and continued on
his way.
308
NOTES
Writing a novel is viciously hard work. I’ve written screenplays and picture books,
but nothing has ever come close to being as difficult as writing this story, start to finish.
It all started with an article posted to Slashdot in 2002, which read (in part):
“Scientists have assembled the first synthetic virus. The US researchers built the
infectious agent from scratch using the genome sequence for polio. The most amusing
part is this snippit: 'To construct the virus, the researchers say they followed a recipe
they downloaded from the internet and used gene sequences from a mail-order
supplier.'”
http://science.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=02/07/11/2352202
The resulting discussion got my brain working overtime: imagine what would
happen if biotech tools were put in the hands of “script kiddies” — hackers with no real
understanding of what they were doing, but a strong desire to do harm. How fast would
civilization fall?
The first real incarnation of this book was as a late-night brainstorm back in the
summer of 2003. I pitched the idea to a bunch of friends during a 36-hour work
marathon: the world is ravaged by disease, and this lone “healer” travels the
countryside, finding the causes of infection, and kills them with his machete.
“A machete?” asked Chris, my long-time creative foil. “Why’d he use a machete?
Isn’t that more dangerous?”
“Yeah,” agreed Jeremy. “He should just inject them with a poison. That way he
doesn’t have to worry about getting infected blood on him.”
“He could make them think it was the cure, but it’s not!” agreed Chris.
“Shut up and get back to work!” growled Lucy (Jeremy’s wife, and ruthless
taskmaster).
Three years later, I was ready to give it a try. I constructed a story about the Healer,
intermingled with the story of a Russian kid named Pyotr who was trying to find his
mother while being hunted by the police.
Suffice to say, quite a lot has changed since that draft.
309
There are two footnotes I want to cover, in response to critiques I received along
the way. They’re elements that I couldn’t fit into the narrative without resorting to
painful exposition, but I still contemplated endlessly:
The Healer doesn’t use a gun because guns are not a limitless weapon. If you’re
sending an agent into a dangerous environment like that, you don’t want to weigh him
down unnecessarily. He already needs to carry a tent and enough food to sustain him
for weeks at a time (between airdrop deliveries). If he had to carry bullets too, he’d
never make any progress, and would be in deep trouble if he used up his stock too early
in the month. A machete is small, tough, and never runs out.
We don’t hear about America because when you’re dealing with a tragedy in your
home, you don’t often care what’s happening halfway across the world. It’s
unimportant to you at that moment in time. Is the U.S. in as bad shape as Europe, or
did they keep things under control? Have they erected a wall between Mexico?
Canada? Has democracy failed in the face of multiple concurrent plagues? All
interesting questions, but none of which impact the world of Eva or the Healer.
The shaping of this book took a lot of hard work from a lot of different people, who
I will now thank in absolutely no order whatsoever:
Slashdot. Okay, that’s not a person, but I think it’s obvious that without my “news
for nerds”, I wouldn’t be half as interesting as I am today.
Chris Gully, my partner in crime. Chris read draft four of this book and said to me:
“You’re telling, not showing. Didn’t you learn anything in high school? I’m not reading
any more of this until you fix it.”
Jeremy List, for helping me realize that a machete is a weapon best saved for
special occasions. And also Lucy List. Because if I don’t thank her, she’ll kill me.
Don RJ Davisillan, genius space nut and very good friend, who read draft 3 and
said in as polite a way as I think is possible: “Hmm. It’s very good! Thanks!” That told
me I needed to write a few more versions.
My parents, because they actually read draft 6, and whereas your parents may just
say “Oh my dearest! That was wonderful!”, my parents gave me 25 pages of highly
critical notes, which I couldn’t fully resolve until draft 9.
310
Mary Anne Mohanraj and John Scalzi for their fantastic posts about race and
writing: http://whatever.scalzi.com/2009/03/13/mary-anne-mohanraj-gets-you-upto-speed-part-ii/. Although I talked mostly about Chinese attributes in my comments
there, I was (and still am) deeply concerned about writing “other” people (racial,
cultural or even just regional) than myself. I think I treated everyone with appropriate
respect in this story, but if not, I’d love to hear your thoughts on how I could improve.
Ken Kehl and Robert Lambert, who butchered draft 5 so severely and so well that
it saved me from myself. And of course all the folks at Critters (http://critique.org)
who do a fantastic job honing raw materials into something great.
Kyle Newton, who not only found a few dozen typos that everyone else missed, but
did it while reading on a PSP. Oh, and he also helped me discover my unintentional
affection for asyndeton. He saved you all from great suffering.
Tim Pollak, my editor extraordinaire, found more glitches and oversights in this
book than I could possibly imagine. He didn’t get to read this section, though, so any
mistakes are on me!
And I want to thank my wonderful wife, Rie, who read draft 6 in a big blue binder
over the course of a week, and said to me at the end: “Well, at least it didn’t suck.”
That’s the nicest thing she’s ever said to me!
Yes!
— RJ Davis
May 2009
311
This is a Creative Commons licensed edition
downloaded from
www.obooko.com
No charge has been made to access or download this book.
You may freely use this digital copy in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the Creative Commons license attribution
appearing in this work.
1
2
Author of Pain:
Minor Mayhem
David Dwan
© Copyright David Dwan 2021
This is an authorised free edition from www.obooko.com
Although you do not have to pay for this book, the author’s intellectual property rights
remain fully protected by international Copyright laws. You are licensed to use this
digital copy strictly for your personal enjoyment only. This edition must not be hosted
or redistributed on other websites without the author’s written permission nor offered
for sale in any form. If you paid for this book, or to gain access to it, we suggest you
demand an immediate refund and report the transaction to the author.
3
PROLOGUE
It’s a curious thing, researching your own death.
Which, once the inevitable disorientation of his post- mortem rebirth had
passed, was the first thing Randall did once he had returned from oblivion to
the land of the (almost) living.
He even had a copy of the crime scene photographs, very grisly, not the
kind of keepsake one would normally hang onto but they still held a macabre
fascination for him, even after all these years they never failed to illicit a shiver
down the spine.
He had been originally prompted to do all this by the dream of the final
moments of his mortal life.
The before, to this after.
It always began the same, the caress of a gentle breeze on his face as he
drifted off to sleep and with it the smell of freshly rain soaked streets.
Then came the shouts and that God awful burning in his chest. Fractured
images reassembled in some sort of vaguely coherent order would play out in
his mind’s eye, over and over like a damn movie loop but one edited by a
madman with a hatchet. Yeah, he remembered just about everything about
that night. Which considering what happened wasn’t that surprising. After
all, if you can’t remember your own murder, then just what the hell are you
going to remember?
He was running now, down a long dark New York cobbled street, the
burning in his chest was his lungs screaming for air. The shouts were coming
from the four shadows chasing him with murderous intent. A volley of
gunshots rang out followed by that sound like angry bees buzzing past his
head, one so close he could feel the concussion as it zipped by his ear.
Randall could still, even now, feel that first bullet hit as it slammed into the
back of his right shoulder and with it, just like always, everything became
crystal clear.
4
He remembered struggling to keep his feet as his mutinous legs
threatened to buckle as he ran. He remembered stumbling on and firing
blindly behind him and that much needed hit of adrenalin as one of his
pursuers screamed and tumbled to the ground. Lucky shot, but then again
Randall had always been lucky. Lucky until he ran blindly into that alleyway.
Once he was beyond the reach of the streetlights the alley soon became
pitch black, but still he ran on. The footsteps at his back were closer now and
more gunshots rang out, their bark echoing off the walls around him and with
each shot came a muzzle flash which cut through the darkness giving Randall
fleeting glimpses of this surroundings; walls closing in around him.
He remembered the blood, icy cold running down his arm, he couldn’t be
sure, but he thought that must have been why the gun slipped through his
fingers and clattered to the ground behind him. Betrayed by his own blood.
Randall’s head was spinning wildly, his usually clear thoughts mudded by
blood loss and an overdose of adrenaline, but he stumbled on, concentrating
on just putting one damn foot in front of the other. Another gunshot briefly
illuminated the alley ahead and the brick wall that was right in front of him
forcing him to skid to a halt. A dead end, very apt.
He remembered not being afraid, of turning to face his executioners with
a smile, or maybe that was just his pride and memory playing tricks on him.
But either way it felt good not to be running anymore. That was when his legs
finally gave out and he slid down the wall and onto his backside. He
remembered laughing as he looked up at the three silhouettes standing over
him, each of them breathing hard from the pursuit. One of them was
speaking, but to this day, of all the things Randall remembered so vividly
about that night, he couldn’t remember a damn word the man said, strange
that.
Then, after that forgotten epitaph they finally opened fire. He got
fleeting glimpses of their faces, they were all grinning like loons, one of them,
did his face look familiar? Was openly laughing as he emptied his gun.
Randall could still feel every single bullet hit, nine of them, he guessed at least
one of the bastards must have been a lousy shot.
So Randall remembered almost everything about that night, which
stands to reason when you think about it. After all it’s not every day you are
shot to death in an alley, is it? Yes, he could recall with an almost absolute
5
clarity, the sights the sounds, even the damn smell of the place. But curiously
that was it.
There was nothing from that feeling of slipping into darkness to the
moment he walked back out of that same alley looking exactly the same as
when he had entered it, even wearing the same damn suit,(less the blood and
bullet hits).
This he soon realised was the first thing he had to remedy when he
discovered he’d been away for some fifty odd years. Nineteen seventies New
York was the first of many shocks that day. Half a century gone by in a
heartbeat and he remembered nothing of it.
He was just, different somehow.
Worse still, he had no recollection of the deal, of the selling of his soul
and signing up for this new life he found himself slap bang in the middle of.
For surely there must have been one, some little seduction scene play out in
the void between life and death where he had readily given up his eternal
soul for his lost life back, and not forgetting the power he now possessed.
There was no end of the mischief Randall could perform; he could
manipulate those around him, not to mention the numerous creatures he
could conjure up, just by will alone and with the help of a little spit, blood,
smoke and shadows. Sure, that would explain where all the years had gone,
you can’t learn all that shit overnight, but he couldn’t remember learning any
of it, not even a training montage like in the movies.
And what of the moment of actually signing his soul away? Nothing, and
surely that has got to be even more important to a guy than simply dying.
Any idiot could do that, people did it in their thousands, every damn day.
There was nothing from the moment he died to when he walked out,
dazed and disorientated, into a world that had quite literally left him way
behind.
Hence the research into his own death, it was his way of confirming all
this wasn’t just some hallucination brought on by blood loss and the odd
bullet to the head. No, he was dead and it hadn’t been big news either, if he
was honest, Randall thought it would have been bigger, but there no
screaming newspaper headlines for him, just a few paragraphs found almost
by accident in an old copy of the New York Times in the city library. No one
6
knew who had killed him or why, and Randall couldn’t imagine they had
made much of an effort to track down his murderers. He wasn’t missed, just
another dead hood in the carnage that was the gang wars of the roaring
twenties. Gone and defiantly forgotten.
But now he was back.
Randall had been wandering around in a daze for almost a week with all
this power but no clue what it was for or why he was back. That was when
the annoying little bastard Ishrel finally found him, and that was when things
had gotten really surreal.
ONE
Larry McCulloch was a survivor, no doubt about it. Say what you like
about him, (oh and they did) but the one thing you could never do was deny
his ability to worm his way out of trouble. In his sixty-seven years, Larry had
been shot, (twice) stabbed, (thrice) and beaten to a pulp, (too numerous to
mention) but had always come out the other side smelling of roses, no matter
what the bastards had thrown at him.
He’d led a charmed life that was for sure, so how he’d come to find
himself in this present company eluded him. Larry looked around at the three
plain clothed officers he was sharing the car with as they drove through the
rain and turned onto yet another dimly lit street.
They were kids really, not one of them was over forty, and although he
had only known them a matter of hours, he hated the lot of them already and
certainly didn’t relish the fact that these three were his last line of defence
against those who, most of whom he had once called friends, now wanted
him very dead.
Lewis, who Larry had already taken a particular dislike to, was in the front
passenger seat fumbling with a hand drawn map. The man was thirty five at
most, and looked like a dishevelled accountant in his crumped cheap suit and
badly combed dirty blond hair. Larry figured none of them had heard of a
SAT NAV which didn’t bode well.
7
Lewis frowned at the makeshift map and absently ruffled his already
messy mop of hair. “Ok Jeff, you want to take your next left,” he instructed
Jeff, the driver who was barely into his twenties, but looked even younger, the
kid nodded and obediently took the next turning.
Larry peered out of his side window at the urban decay as it passed by.
“Hmm,” he said. “Dark deserted streets, that’s a good idea.”
Lewis craned his neck around. “Relax Larry, you’re with the professionals
now. No more uniforms, we’re the real deal.”
“Huh!” Larry grunted in way of response: MI5? Bollocks, he thought, this
was all far short of the five star treatment he had been promised by the pencil
pushers in Whitehall. Oh, he had been assured this was only temporary of
course, just until things died down a little and they could guarantee his safety.
Then they would begin the negotiations in earnest. Larry had already made
up his mind to make them pay a little extra, to make them beg a little more,
for the gold mine of information he had ferreted away down through the
years.
It still brought a smile to his face when he recalled how Chief Inspector
Willis had almost had a thrombosis upon seeing just a glimpse of the
evidence he had gathered over his fifty odd years of criminal activity.
There was dirt on most of the underworld’s biggest movers and shakers.
Larry knew, sometimes literally, where the bodies were buried. But it was the
other stuff that had Willis practically panting, the names of all the bent
judges, coppers and the odd politician (past and present) that Larry had
encountered, all backed up with cast iron proof. That had been the real gold.
It was that mother lode more than anything that would save Larry
McCulloch’s life.
It had started as a hobby of sorts, little pieces of information filed away
here and there, just in case. But the evidence had mounted up over the years
and Larry soon began to realise what if things went badly for him, then this
was his winning lotto ticket, his get out of jail free card. And he sure as hell
intended to play it now that things were looking bleak.
Queen’s evidence; Two of the sweetest words in the English language.
He must have been smirking to himself because Peroni who was sitting
next to him, an Italian Woman in her early thirties who Larry had first thought
8
attractive until he realised she never smiled and who had the dubious honour
of being the leader of this happy little troupe, gave him a sideways glance.
“Having fun?” She said with a strong accent. Larry assumed Lewis and
the kid Jeff must be MI5 so that made Peroni Interpol, which made sense
considering Larry’s mischief over the years had often taken him over to fleece
our European friends.
Quite a collaboration he thought, maybe he would see if he could get
these three fuckwits fired as part of his deal, or shipped off to Outer
Mongolia. “Yes,” he finally replied meeting her brown eyed gaze. “Yes I am
having fun.”
“That’s it,” Lewis piped up. “Last house on the left.”
Jeff nodded. “Yep got it, number twenty.” And pulled the car over to the
side of the road.
Larry looked up at the house they were parked in front of in dismay.
Now they were just taking the piss. “Oh come on,” he said. Even under the
flattering mask of night the place looked dilapidated.
Lewis folded away the map and glanced back at Peroni. “Don’t think he
approves of your choice of safe house, Ania.” To which Peroni just raised an
eyebrow in way of response. “Careful Larry, you’ll hurt her feelings.” Lewis
added.
The old crook glared at Lewis who clutched his heart in mock pain. “Ugh!
If looks could kill we’d be a man down,” Lewis said. And Larry wished he had
a gun.
Peroni opened her door and moved to get out. “Come on Larry, let’s get
you inside before the bad men see you, eh?” And with that she got out.
“Huh,” Larry snorted. “No self-respecting hit man would be seen dead in
a place like this,” he added more to himself than anyone.
“Exactly Larry, exactly.” Lewis said as he got out.
“Here,” said Jeff before Lewis closed the door. “I tell you what, he catches
on quick though, doesn’t he?”
Larry exhaled and buttoned up his coat. ‘Just relax,’ he told himself,
‘don’t bite and in a few days you’ll be away from all this bollocks.’ The
9
thought warmed him as he stepped out in to the cold night air and followed
his protectors over to the safe house. Rundown as it was, this was to be his
home for the next couple of days or so. Then he promised himself, it would
be nothing but five stars for the rest of his, hopefully very long, life.
Once Jeff had finished fumbling with the front door keys they finally got
inside, it was just as Larry had feared. The place was as rundown inside as the
outside had suggested. The interior décor reminded him of a time, back in
the eighties, when he had briefly gotten into renting fire traps to students.
Everything was second hand and mismatched, the whole place smelt of damp.
Hardly the Ritz.
Lewis pushed passed Larry rubbing his hands together. “I’ll get the
heating on,” he said and then disappeared into the kitchen.
“I suppose room service is out of the question?” Larry deadpanned.
Ignoring the remark Peroni went through into what looked like the living
room jabbering in Italian on her mobile phone, leaving Larry in the hallway
with Jeff. The kid locked the door and turned to Larry grinning. “You’re a real
card, Larry,” he said. “A real card.”
“Yeah,” came Lewis’ voice from the kitchen. “Ought to be dealt with!”
Peroni reappeared snapping her mobile shut, she could see Larry wasn’t
happy. “It’s just temporary, until things die down,” she told him. “I’ll order
some food, you’ll feel much better after you have had a shower and
something to eat. Besides, it doesn’t look too bad to me.” She eased past
Larry and started up the stairs.
“I can’t believe I agreed to all this,” Larry said.
Without stopping Peroni called over her shoulder; “Don’t recall you
having much choice McCulloch, do you?”
Lewis came back through from the kitchen. “Heating’s on, it’ll be toasty
warm in no time.” He unzipped his jacket. “Tell you what,” he continued.
“You can have the big bedroom if you like?”
“Oh, well that makes all the fucking difference then doesn’t it?” Larry
said testily. He rubbed his tired eyes with the balls of his hands. Yep, it was
going to be a long few days, he thought, a long few days.
10
TWO
Larry stepped into the shower and stuck his head under the tepid water,
it robbed him of his breath for a moment, but he was so desperate to wash
away the grime of the last few hours that he gladly risked hypothermia. Now
that he was out of sight of those clowns downstairs, Larry allowed himself a
brief moment of self-pity, the urge to sob uncontrollably almost over took
him but he just about managed to suppress it, even though he knew it would
help ease the knot that had been tightening deep in his stomach ever since
he had woken a week ago and finally realised he was shit out of luck, which
left only one option.
And so he had reluctantly surrendered himself into the hands of those he
had always thought of as the enemy. He stopped himself because he knew
that once he started be wasn’t sure he would ever be able to stop.
He rested his forehead against the cold tiles and tried to tell himself that
he had been in worse scrapes than this before and still come through the
other side. After all wasn’t that what he was famous for? By rights Larry
McCulloch should have been found dead in a ditch somewhere on any
number of occasions before this, but someone had always come through for
him at the last minute.
Larry’s philosophy, which had kept him alive this long, was quite simple:
If you are going to pull a fast one and fuck somebody over on a deal, just
make sure it benefits not only you, but also somebody who’s bigger or
stronger than the fella you’ve just fucked. That way they have to grin and
bear it or risk an even bigger shafting from your new partner. Sure it was
risky, but in the end Larry knew that was all part of the charm, he had a thinly
disguised self-destructive streak, always had, sometimes he even shocked
himself. He remembered what a hit man had once said to him while they
were waiting for their victim to emerge from a late nightclub one night, years
ago. ‘Deep down every killer wants to get caught eventually.’
That had always rung true with Larry and in moments of vulnerability, like
now, more than ever. Still as no one he had ever known had the balls to pull
some of the stunts he had over the years, Larry had attained a kind of mythic
status amongst the underworld, not just here but in Europe too, which he had
always enjoyed, probably too much in fact, because it had worked well
11
enough as long as his friends had outnumbered his enemies. But somewhere
along the way his list of friends had grown shorter and his enemies alarmingly
longer, until he’d had no choice but to play his last card and get the fuck out
of Dodge.
His famous black book, (which was in fact, rather less glamorously, half a
dozen tatty folders crammed full to bursting and a cheap flash drive) that was
his ticket out of here. It was a stroke of genius and safely tucked away ready
for its big entrance. The thought of the chaos it would cause never failed to
lift his spirits. And when the shit hit the fan he would melt quietly way
somewhere hot. Somewhere a million miles away from here so all this would
be just a distant memory, if he would be able to recall it at all.
And then he knew the legend of ‘Lucky’ Larry McCulloch would be set in
stone. He imagined there would be books, maybe even a biopic, yeah he
would like that.
And so with images of media immortality buzzing around his head, Larry
got out of the shower and dried himself off.
Once he had changed into some clean clothes, Larry felt a million times
better and even felt up to another round of moronic conversation with his socalled protectors, that coupled with the smell of freshly delivered pizza
tempted Larry down stairs.
As he got to the hallway he could see Peroni through the living room
door, mobile in one hand and a slice of Pepperoni in the other. She was
pacing the floor speaking Italian again in between nibbling on the pizza,
although he couldn’t speak much Italian he knew whomever was unfortunate
enough to find themselves on the other end of the phone was getting a
tongue lashing, hopefully about this shit-hole they were staying in.
Hearing voices from the kitchen Larry wandered through to see Lewis
sitting at a cheap plastic topped table munching on some garlic bread while
Jeff was in a corner studying two monitors which occasionally flicked between
different parts of what Larry assumed must be outside the house. At least
they had some sort of security system in place.
Lewis jumped up theatrically from his seat seeing Larry enter. “Don
McCulloch, take a seat. What can I get you, Sir? We’ve got Pepperoni, Ham
and pineapple and for our veggie friends Margarita.”
12
Larry ignored him and eyed the pizza boxes on the table, he opened one
and took a slice of Margarita. “Anything to drink?” He asked, taking a bite.
“Tea, coffee, it’s freshly brewed, and I think there’s some bottled water in
the fridge.” Offered Lewis.
“Anything stronger?” Larry said in between chewing.
Jeff looked up from the monitors. “I’ve got some shandy. I know I
shouldn’t while on duty but what the heck.” This won a smile from Lewis but
just more contempt from Larry.
“Coffee,” Larry grunted and took a seat on one of the mismatched chairs
opposite where Lewis was sitting.
Lewis poured Larry a mug of coffee and sitting back down slid it across
the table to him, up close it smelt burned.
“How was your shower?” Jeff asked.
“The water’s freezing,” Larry said, he sipped the coffee and winced at the
sour taste. He gestured around him. “Is this really the best you people can
come up with?”
“Government cut backs,” Lewis said shrugging apologetically. “You know
how it is?” He then picked up another piece of garlic bread and proceeded to
feed his face.
“Yeah,” Jeff said, leaned back in his chair and stretched. “Here, Larry,
there’s been something I’ve been meaning to ask you. Seeing as all the
trouble you’re now in, didn’t anybody ever tell you, crime doesn’t pay? At
school maybe?”
“Be fair,” Lewis said. “That was a long time ago.”
Larry was about to answer when Peroni poked her head around the door.
“Arh, good you’re eating, Larry. How was your shower?”
“Cold, like his heart,” Lewis said glancing mischievously at Larry.
The Italian ignored the comment. “I’m off then, keep in touch, I should
be back tomorrow sometime.”
Lewis nodded. “Will do chief, see you later.”
13
“Any problems Larry, see Lewis until I return. Bye for now.” She
disappeared again.
This pleased Lewis no end. “I think he’s got a list.” He said.
“Be nice!” Peroni called back before the front door slammed shut. Jeff
checked one of the monitors and followed her as she walked down the
garden path and in to the car and once she had pulled away, repositioned the
camera so it was covering the front door once more.
“She’d be attractive if she removed that rod from up her arse.” Larry said
and finished his slice of pizza.
“Don’t knock the boss, Larry. She’s a gem” Jeff said playing with a
camera control. “She will keep your sorry backside alive if you let her.”
This won a snort of derision from Larry.
“Sooo, Larry,” Lewis said pointing a half-eaten piece of garlic bread at
him. “How did a high roller like you end up in a place like this?”
He gave Lewis a bored look, but thought, what the hell, a bit of banter
might make the time go quicker. “You goody-goodies tell me crime doesn’t
pay?”
“Just an observation, Larry taking into account your current situation.”
Jeff said, turning to face them both.
“Alright smart guy,” Larry continued. “Tell me this. Where will you two
dickheads be this time next year, eh? Shall I tell you?”
“Go on,” Lewis said.
“Nowhere, that’s where.” Lewis and Jeff exchanged a mock quizzical
look. Lewis made to speak but Larry continued. “You’ll be risking your lives,
stuck in a dump like this, guarding some other wanker who doesn’t care if you
live or die. And you know where I’ll be?”
“No,” Jeff said. “But I’m sure you’re going to tell us.”
Pausing for dramatic effect, Larry took another sip of bitter coffee before
he spoke. “In the sun mate, in the fucking sun, living it up in Rio for the rest
of my pampered life. Now tell me crime doesn’t pay.”
14
Lewis leaned back in his chair he raised his eyebrows and gave Larry a
look something akin to pity, which riled him instantly. “Larry,” he finally said.
“Just because you’ve agreed to testify against all your so-called gangster
mates, doesn’t mean you’re going to be able to walk away from all you’ve
done. It doesn’t work like that anymore I’m afraid. You’re fast out of friends,”
he gestured to Jeff. “We’re all you’ve got left. Now how sad is that?”
Larry gave Lewis his best smug look. “Queen’s evidence is a wonderful
thing by friend. Once I give your bosses the shit they want, the ones who I
haven’t got dirt on that is. I walk, scot fucking free.”
“He’s got you there, Lewis.” Jeff interjected.
Unruffled, Lewis got to his feet and walked over to the sink, where he
began washing out his mug. “Arh,” he said. “The famous book. You really do
live in your own little world, don’t you?”
“He’s a legend in his own lunch time,” Jeff spun on his chair and glanced
at the monitors. Then happy all was well he spun back.
“Huh, yeah,” Lewis continued. “He’s just going to walk away from all he’s
done,” he clicked his fingers. “Just like that. The infamous Lucky Larry
McCulloch, huh?”
Larry drained his cup, which made him wince at the taste. “You know,
why anybody would want to be a bodyguard in this day and age is beyond
me.”
Lewis turned around, suddenly serious which took Larry aback slightly.
After all this was just harmless banter, wasn’t it? “You don’t know anything
about us, Larry.”
The kid Jeff however was still in fine form. “But they give us guns Larry,
guns!!” He pulled his jacket aside to reveal a shoulder holster.
Larry glanced at it then back to Lewis who was staring at him intently,
frowning slightly. So, Larry thought, a chink in the armour, Lewis hated him,
that much he already knew. But he hated having to risk his life for him even
more. Thanks for the ammo, kid.
As if feeling the tension, Jeff said; “Guns!” again. To which Lewis nodded
and patted his own gun under his jacket.
15
“Huh,” snorted Larry. “You lot have to fill in a million forms just to shoot
one of those things. God forbid you should actually hit anything.”
“Not like when you were a lad, eh Larry?” Jeff said with a sarcastic wink
Larry happily ignored, but nodded all the same.
“In my day,” he said. “If I wanted some twat shot, all I had to do was pick
up the phone.” He made his hand into a gun and ‘fired’ it at Lewis. “Bang!”
Then he hit the table for dramatic effect.
This raised a slight smile from Lewis. “And just think, now someone is
going to do the same for you,” he said, then softly added; “Bang?”
Larry held his gaze, refusing to be intimidated. “Don’t worry about me,”
he said.
The smile on Lewis’ face broadened. “Oddly enough, we don’t.” He
replied.
‘Got ya!’ thought Larry. “Hmm,” he mused. “Yet you might have to take
a bullet to save me and by precious book.” Lewis’ smile faltered ever so
slightly, but Larry saw it only too well, so added; “How do you spell imbecile?”
Lewis was openly frowning now, he sighed. “You know, you really aren’t
a very nice person, are you Larry?” Larry looked at him, amused. Lewis
studied him for a moment, then added. “Ever heard the expression: ‘What
you sow you shall reap?’”
“Very Biblical,” Larry replied nonchalantly.
“Or live by the sword, die by the sword?” Jeff added gleefully.
Larry shook his head, the clock on the wall said 22:30 and he decided
after the day he’d had and the way things were going down here that it was
well passed his bed time. He stood up. “You know if asshole could fly, this
place would be an airport!”
This made Jeff laughed out loud and it even raised a smile from Lewis.
Jeff clapped. “Good one liner, Larry,” he said.
Lewis shrugged. “Well it was more two than one, but good never the
less.”
That was it, Larry threw his hands up and left them to it. “Enough of this
bollocks,” he said on the way out. “I’m off to bed.”
16
He got as far as the bottom of the stairs when Jeff shouted; “’Ere Larry,
you should go into showbiz with a repartee like that.”
He couldn’t help himself and shouted back; “A fuckin’ airport!” He was
about to ascend the stairs but he could still hear the two of them twittering
on and stopped on the first step to listen despite himself.
“Arh,” It was Jeff. “Everyone a classic, everyone a pearl.”
“Yeah, watch out Bob Monkhouse, eh?” Lewis replied.
“Bob Monkhouse is dead,” explained Jeff.
“Don’t be daft, no he isn’t.” Countered Lewis.
“He is!” Insisted Jeff.
“Nar.”
“Well,” concluded Jeff. “He must be flipping old then.”
“Old yes, dead no.”
Hearing this Larry trudged up the stairs in despair. He couldn’t believe
these clowns were his last line of defence. “Your life in their hands,” he said
out loud. All the coppers in the world, he mused ruefully and I get Laurel and
fucking Hardy.


THREE
The young novice priest walked down the old corridor with only the
sound of his footsteps bouncing off the stone walls for company. As he
approached yet another set of stone steps leading down to the next level,
(these would be the fourth, that meant once he was at the bottom, he would
be four floors below ground level) he gave silent thanks that at least they had
managed to get electricity down this far.
He passed yet another ancient looking door but the brass plate on it
named it as a store room, so he walked on and down the steep stone steps to
the next level. One of the bare light bulbs hanging from the ceiling, which lit
17
the way, had failed so the novice was met by a large pool of darkness once he
reached the bottom.
Now he knew why none of the other novices had volunteered to take the
dusty old suitcase he was carrying down to the Vatican’s historical research
department. But despite the rumours that all the old priests that worked
down here had gone mad through lack of sunlight, he had jumped at the
chance to see the place for himself.
Time seemed to have stopped still once he got below ground and
despite the fact that apparently dozens of priests and nuns worked down
here, he had yet to see another living soul.
The novice put his head down and walked purposely through the
darkness and didn’t look up until he was back in the light at the other end.
God how he was regretting his curiosity which was now fading with each step
he took. Another door up ahead caught his eye and he offered up a silent
prayer that he had at last gone as far as he needed. The nameplate on the
door read: Research and Archive Department, which prompted an audible
sigh of relief.
The novice knocked hard on the heavy oak door but it seemed to make
no noise at all, he waited a moment but couldn’t hear anything from inside,
so he moved to knock again. As he raised his fist the massive door swung
open to reveal a young nun, with a lollypop stick hanging out of the corner of
her mouth. She chewed it for a moment and looked the young novice up and
down, her eyes settling on his fist, which was still in the air ready to knock.
She raised her eyebrows at this and the novice quickly dropped his hand by
his side and grinned nervously.
He opened his mouth to speak but the nun turned and walked away
before he could get a word out leaving the door ajar. “I told you we need an
intercom!” She bellowed. “Father Nichols, this one’s for you.”
The novice gingerly stepped inside to what he assumed would be an
office but to his amazement walked into what looked like a massive library.
Rows upon rows of metal shelves crammed full to bursting with boxes, books
and files stretched high towards the curved stone ceiling some thirty feet
above his head.
18
To his right, the nun who had answered the door flopped down behind a
large desk, which was buried under piles of papers and files. The novice took
a step towards her. “Excuse me sister...”
She held up her hand to silence him, not bothering to look up from her
work. “I’m not getting up again, my knees will be shot by the time I’m thirty,”
she said.
He was wondering what to do next when a whistle rang out from the far
end of the room and he turned to see an old priest, some forty feet away,
leaning out from behind a filing cabinet waving to him. The novice returned
his gesture and gratefully made his way across the room towards him.
He glanced around as he passed several other priests and nuns sitting
behind desks at intervals between the shelves working away, some at
computers, which looked anachronistic in the extreme compared to their
surroundings. Another ancient looking priest was chambering precariously
up a ladder with an arm full of books, which he deposited on a high up shelve
and then much to the novices amusement slid back down the ladder without
using the rungs, stopping a foot from the bottom and jumping the rest of the
way with ease.
“Hello, my Boy,” said the waving priest as he finally reached him. “Found
the place alright then?” He gave the novice a warm smile and slapped him on
the arm.
“Hello, Father, yes, thank you, quite a trip.” He said.
The Priest nodded. “They won’t let us put a lift in, this being the Vatican
and all. I think it may actually be sacrilege to try.” He looked at the old
suitcase. “That for us?”
“Yes sir, some old files Father Perelli found, I think.” The novice replied.
The Priest held out his hand and took the case. He glanced around at all
the clutter in the room with a wry smile. “Just what we need.”
“And, Father Nichols, I have a message for you from Cardinal Luppi...”
The novice pulled out a crumpled envelope from his cassock pocket and
was about to give it to the old priest when he held up his free hand and
shook his head. “It’s not for me, I’m Father Mendez,” Mendez gestured to a
small office with a glass front tucked away in the corner, and to a priest who
19
looked in his early sixties with greying black hair who was sitting at a desk
hunched over some papers. “That’s Father Nichols, you’d better give it to him
personally, just in case there’s a reply.”
“Yes, Father, thank you.” The novice replied and Mendez watched him as
he approached the door, knocked and was waved inside by Nichols.
Nichols looked up sternly as the novice entered but his face softened
seeing how young and nervous he was.
“F, Father Nichols?” The novice said weakly. “I, er, I’ve got a message
from Cardinal Luppi.”
Nichols made a face and picked up the telephone. “What are the phone
lines down again? Or is it top secret?” He said it in perfect Italian, but the
novice picked up the hint of a long buried English accent.
The novice look flustered. “I erm, I don’t know, Father,” he stuttered.
“I mean, yes the phones are down, but I don’t know about the message.”
The priest held the receiver to his ear and nodded, phone was indeed
dead so he replaced the handset. “Don’t worry.” He looked at the novice
who frowned and just looked at him blankly. Then, “well, the message?”
“Oh, sorry, yes,” he rummaged in his cassock pocket again and pulled out
the envelope. “Sorry Father.”
Nichols took the note and began to read. As Nichols was reading the
novice idly scanned the contents of his cluttered desk. Among the various
books and paperwork his attention was drawn to an official looking police
document that was sticking out of a pile of folders tantalizingly half
uncovered and begging to be read. His eyes flitted back to Nichols who was
now frowning as he read, and then back to the paper, he had to resist the
urge to tug on the paper out a little further to get a better view but instead
craned his head so he could read the available text sideways on.
It was a French police report, and although the novice’s French was only
passable he was able to make out the gist.
It was a crime scene report from somewhere near Paris, two bodies found
in a hotel mutilated almost beyond recognition. The novice could see the
corner of a photocopied crime scene photograph attached to the report, he
could make out a foot and part of a leg lying in a pool of dark liquid that
20
could only be one thing. The fuzzy image made him shiver and although he
had a morbid curiosity to see more, thanks to the words ‘mutilated beyond
recognition’ he was glad he couldn’t. But instead read on as best his French
would allow.
Nichols cursed under his breath and exhaled. “Old fool,” he said in
English, as he always did when he was alone. He pursing his lips irritably then
remembered where he was and looked up at the novice, just in time to see
the remainder of the colour in the young man’s face drain away.
“You alright, boy?” Nichols asked back in Italian mode. The young novice
was deathly white and Nichols could see a sheen of sweat had broken out on
his forehead and the kid looked like he was going to pitch over at any
moment. “Boy?” He said a little louder.
The novice finally looked up at Nichols with a look on his face like the
priest had just appeared out of thin air, his mouth moved but nothing came
out. Nichols snapped his fingers. “Still with us?” The novice nodded slightly
but was still dumb. “You want to sit down before you fall down, you look
terrible.” Nichols said, then added as an afterthought. “If you’re going to be
sick, use the bin over there.”
“No, thank you, Father,” the novice replied weakly. “Do, erm do you have
a reply for the Cardinal?” He was clearly concentrating on getting every word
out coherently. Then he actually swayed slightly.
“No, you get yourself off and get some fresh air. I’ll speak to the Cardinal
myself. Off you go,” before you pass out on my office floor, Nichols thought
but kept it to himself.
The novice nodded and left without another word. Nichols stood and
watched bemused as he half walked half ran from the room. “José?” He
shouted and Father Mendez appeared in the doorway holding a file.
“You bellowed?” The older priest said and gestured to Nichols with the
file. “You know, there might actually be some useful stuff in here, I swear I
don’t know where Perelli finds this stuff.”
“He’s a hoarder,” Nichols said still looking after the novice who had now
disappeared. He screwed up the Cardinal’s note and threw it in the general
direction of the bin.
21
“Good news then, Peter?”
Nichols gritted his teeth. “The old fool, he won’t let me take it until the
paperwork’s cleared. Paperwork! Can you believe it?”
“It is priceless, Peter,” Mendez said calmly.
“It’s not like I’m going to leave it on the bus or something!” Nichols
slumped back down into his chair telling himself to calm down. “I need it,
José. If the reports are true, I won’t be able to do a damn thing without it.”
Mendez sat on the edge of the desk. “I agree, but why not wait until they
let you take it? Shouldn’t be more than a couple of days, a week at the most.
His Holiness is in South Africa at the moment, but he’s back on Wednesday, I
think.”
Nichols shook his head. “I can’t, they’re over there on their own as it is.
I’m still flying out on the third, regardless. I have to. I’ll go see the Cardinal
myself. I’ll steal the damn thing if I have to.”
Both men stood in silence for a moment, then Mendez smiled. “I bet you
would too.”
“No one believes, José,” Nichols said flatly. “No one believes anymore.
But I’ve seen what they can do, seen it with my own eyes.” Nichols let his
voice drift off as he remembered that night so many years ago that had
changed everything. Thanks to a tramp seeking sanctuary and the woman
with the impossibly blue eyes. As it always did when he let himself remember,
the memory of her warmed and terrified him at the same time.
The novice sprinted up the final set of stone steps and out into the
sunlight, the sudden rush of fresh air made his stomach flip and he thought
for a moment he was going to throw up. He lent against a stone pillar
gasping and held his face up to the sun, oblivious to the strange looks he was
getting from those around him. He thought someone spoke, asking if he was
alright, but the voice seemed a million miles away. His legs finally gave way
and he slid down the pillar.
There were definitely figures around him now, silhouetted against the
blue sky, someone was shouting for a glass of water, another to give him
some room. The sun was blinding him now so the novice screwed his eyes
tight shut. Now he knew why no one wanted to go down there. And as the
22
conclusion to the crime scene report flashed into his mind’s eye again with
sickening clarity, he swore that he would never go down there again, not even
if the Pope himself asked him.
The attack, the report had concluded, had been carried out by one
perhaps two large wild dogs. Simple enough were it not for the fact that
someone had crossed out ‘one perhaps two wild dogs’ and added next to it
their own conclusion as to the attacker’s identity. One word in red ink:
Demon?
FOUR
When Larry McCulloch had been at the top of his game, which seemed a
life time ago lately, he had spent a blissful six months staying at the Hilton
Hotel in London, all expenses paid courtesy of a real life Arab oil sheik he was
working for selling fake Saudi land rights to British and American oil
companies. It had been a good gig while it lasted, but like so many of his
ventures had ended in a mini blood bath at a London nightclub one late
November evening.
Larry had, of course got away Scot free without a scratch and twenty
grand in used tens and twenties. The Sheik hadn’t faired so well, being
tortured to death and all. The truth of it was he was a real Saudi Sheik, of
sorts, but didn’t own a grain of sand over there let alone the acres and acres
he and Larry had sold. So it had all come to a bloody end, but hey, at least
the food at the Hilton had been good. Larry had put on half a stone while he
had been there.
So where did it all go wrong this time? Larry mused as he prodded a folk
at what Lewis had laughingly referred to as a full English breakfast, which was
laid out in state on the plate in front of him. Lewis was sitting opposite him
reading the paper, he peeped over it. “Larry, you’ve hardly touched that, what
a waste. Starving children in Africa, etcetera, etcetera. Don’t tell me you’re a
vegetarian?”
23
“Oh, that’s what this is?” Larry said still prodding. “Sooo, this black
charred stuff must be... No no, don’t tell me. Toast? And the rubbery yellow
and white thing? Come on, help me out here.”
Lewis sighed and put his paper aside. “Play nice,” he said and took the
plate from in front of Larry and dumped its contents straight into the bin,
after rescuing a piece of toast for himself.
Larry picked up his mug and looked into it. “And your coffee, which I
assume this lukewarm black liquid is, tastes like shit.”
“That’ll be the arsenic,” Lewis said taking a bite of toast. “Should kick in,
in a few minutes by the way.”
“I’ll look out for it.” Larry said draining his mug. He hadn’t seen Peroni or
the kid Jeff all morning and wasn’t relishing the thought of another fun filled
day cooped up in the house from hell, especially with only Lewis for company.
And he was getting increasingly frustrated at the lack of movement on the
deal. He had been here two days already and there was no sign of the socalled man from the ministry they were all waiting on.
He was having serious doubts about the whole thing, which wasn’t
helped by the fact that he had been unable to contact his no good solicitor
Tommy Whitaker, since Larry had been moved from Scotland Yard. He made
a mental note to try the slippery bastard again later. Whitaker was another
one who would pay for all this shit he was having to put up with, disappearing
of the face of the earth whilst he was stuck here.
Larry looked across at Lewis who had started doing the dishes. Christ, he
thought, the guy was supposed to be a government bodyguard and all he
ever seemed to do all day was the house work! That and taking great
pleasure in winding him up. More than anything though, Larry hated the lack
of control, he could deal with most situations if he was pulling the strings.
But here he felt like the puppet, and it scared him. Still he mused, what with
the stress and Lewis’ cooking he would at least lose a few pounds. But still,
he missed the Hilton.
“Here, Lewis. So just how long and I going to be subjected to your
dubious company for anyway? Where the hell’s your boss?” Larry asked.
24
 “Don’t ask me,” Lewis said with a shrug. “I’m just a little worker ant,
they never tell me anything. What’s the matter Larry, eager to spill your
guts?”
“No. Just to get away from your ugly mug. And also I’d like to talk to
him about how I’m being treated around here. Why couldn’t have I been put
up in a fucking hotel, like they agreed?”
Lewis turned to face him, drying his hands on a tea towel. He studied the
old crook for a moment. “This again? Now, correct me if I’m wrong, but
didn’t you come running to us after all your gangster pals turned on you?”
“I didn’t go running to anyone.” Larry said coldly.
“Really?” Lewis looked amused. “That’s not what I heard. I heard you
really crossed the wrong people this time. The bad men are coming for you,
Larry. You need us more than we need you.”
Larry wasn’t having that, he put one elbow on the table and jabbed a
finger at Lewis. “Bollocks! I can look after myself. I’m just waiting for the
best hand, that’s all, and it’s coming, I can feel it. I didn’t survive for this long
just to get dead in some dingy doss house like this.” He relaxed his posture.
“I’ll die, aged ninety in sunny Brazil. Or maybe Greece, yeah, I’ve always liked
Greece.”
 “Really?” Lewis said. “Tell you what, I’ll make sure they bury whatever’s
left of you out there. How’s that?”
“All I’m saying is wait and see,” Larry said and held his hands out
defensively. He saw Lewis’ face darken so he added a sarcastic grin as
punctuation.
Tossing aside the tea towel Lewis took a seat opposite Larry and fixed
him with a steady gaze. He drummed his fingers on the table as he studied
McCulloch. “I’ve been reading your file,” Lewis finally said. “You should write
a book, colourful life, to say the least. Always one step ahead, always ready to
sell your soul to the highest bidder. And always on the winning team, no
matter how many times you have to switch sides, eh Larry? No matter what
that team might be?” He paused, but never took his eyes of Larry then said.
“Your Mother must have been so proud.”
25
Larry shook his head and gave Lewis a look like he thought he was
simple in the head. He leaned back and folded his arms, there was no way he
was going to let this little shit intimidate him, if anything he found it amusing
he was even trying. He took his own sweet time before answering. “And it
just eats you up, doesn’t it?” Larry said softly. “Sure, I’ve played dirty all my
life, and yeah granted I might not be at my best right now. But you know,
don’t you Lewis? You know deep down, I’m gonna come through this whole
fucking mess set for life.”
For once, Lewis’ reaction was not what Larry expected. Over these last
couple of days he had learnt exactly how to get Lewis’ goat, the young man
hated Larry, but hated even more the fact that he had to protect the ‘bad guy’
this time, even at the expense of his own life. But this time Lewis just smiled
and had a look of genuine pity in his eyes. Larry frowned without realising it.
It was a look you would give to a dog before putting it out of its misery, an ‘I
know something you don’t.’ kind of thing. And it made Larry feel distinctly on
edge.
Then Lewis leant forward with a look of pure mischief on his face. “All I
know is that I’m on the right side, Larry. And that’s good enough for me.
Whatever happens over the next few days, in the end you’ll be just another
anecdote. Sure I might be dead, but I’m at peace with that.” He said it with
such genuine sincerity it unnerved Larry all the more. “But you?” Lewis
continued. “You’ll be just another lowlife who thought he knew it all.” He
lowered his voice for affect. “You know those shadows?“ His voice was barley
a whisper now, and Larry found himself leaning forwards to hear. “The ones
that keep you awake at night? I know what’s in them, Larry. And I’ve got a
feeling, sooner or later so will you.”
“What the hell is that supposed to mean?” Larry blurted out and sat back,
annoyed with himself for being drawn in.
A grin snaked its way across the Lewis’ face, he was enjoying the
moment. “I’m just saying that’s all. I know what’s coming for you. And I’m
not sure we’re going to be able to stop it when it does.”
“Lewis!” Both men jumped, the voice was sharp and Italian. Peroni was
standing in the kitchen doorway with a face like thunder. Lewis was about to
speak but she cut him off. “That’s enough! Out, and relieve Jeff, he’s in the
car. Now!” She jabbed her thumb back over her shoulder. Without a word
26
Lewis got to his feet and sheepishly left the room staring at the floor as he
went.
“What’s his problem?” Larry said wondering what the hell had just
happened.
Peroni’s face lightened a little. “His problem? Why Larry his problem is
all of ours. Just what in the world are we going to do with the infamous Larry
McCulloch, huh?” With this Peroni turned on her heal and disappeared back
through the door, leaving a bemused Larry to curse the day he’d ever agreed
to this lunacy.
FIVE
The concierge of the Manchester Hilton watched the scruffy old bag lady
trying to negotiate the revolving doors with mild amusement and he knew as
she finally managed to squeeze her considerable bulk and baggage into the
reception area that unless she was an eccentric millionaire he was going to
have to kick her right back outside again before she stunk up the place.
On a good day he may have pointed her in the direction of the kitchens
in the alley around the back of the hotel, but today had not been a good day.
Two double booked suites and a bar fight had seen to that. So Mrs.
Shopping bags better flash her gold card or she’d be out on her arse and he
would at least feel a little bit better about his shitty day.
The bag lady waddled up to the front desk and plonked her bags down,
she muttered something about the freezing weather and her aching legs then
looked up at him. He braced himself for that old lady smell of dirty clothes
and week old piss, but the concierge was surprised that she actually smelled
of lilac even though her clothes looked dirty and worn, and he forgot for a
moment that he was supposed to be throwing her out.
“Are you dumb boy?” She said in a surprisingly educated if harsh voice.
“Or are you hoping to catch some flies with that gaping maw of yours?”
27
The concierge closed his mouth and it crossed his mind that she may
actually be some kind of upper class nutter. “Can I help you?” He said lamely.

“Well I fucking hope so, sparky. I’m here to see Thomas Whitaker.” She
gave him a look of thinly veiled disgust.
He shook his head, her language catching him of guard. “I’m afraid that
won’t be possible,” he hesitated at using the word ‘madam’. “I’m unable to
divulge information as to who we have staying here. If you had an
appointment...”
“Just get him on the phone, I know he’s here, but he’s properly using
some other name or other.” She thought for a moment. “Marcus Carver, he
said he was using the name Marcus Carver.” The concierge glanced at the
register. “D’you want me to spell it for you, sweetie?” She added.
And there it was; room forty-seven. Someone had drawn a little smiley
face next to it the way they always did when a guest was obviously using a
false name.
“I’ll have to ring up, just to make sure, erm Mister Carver is excepting
guests.”
“Christ on a bike!” She exclaimed loud enough to make him flinch and
several people in the lobby turn their way. He fumbled with the phone and
punched in the room’s telephone number. He was hoping that Carver, or
whatever his name was would pick up straight away, he had an uneasy feeling
about this woman and wanted her gone as soon as possible, and despite how
he had felt when he’d first seen her struggling through the door, he didn’t
want to have to tell her to get out anymore. She may have been old and
short but that look in her eye actually scared him.
He stood there sweating with the phone clamped to his ear for what
seemed like an eternity until finally a weak voice answered. “Yes?” It was
barely a whisper.
“Erm, yes, Mister, erm Carver? This is the concierge, calling from down
stairs.” He swallowed, his mouth suddenly dry, the bag lady was boring a
hole into his head with her icy gaze. “I have a lady here to see you, sir.”
He heard a sharp intake of breath. “Describe her,” he said.
28
The concierge felt physically sick at this, she was still staring at him, her
eyes narrowed.
“What did he say?” She asked.
“He, erm, he asked me to describe you...” His voice trailed off, Carver may
as well have asked him to tell her to go fuck herself.
She let out a shriek of laughter and put her elbows on the desk, she
grinned revealing a mouth full of gold teeth. “Go on then, describe away.”
The concierge swayed, he felt faint, which made the old woman shriek
again. “Huh, don’t worry,” said the voice on the phone, “I’d recognise that
cackle anywhere. Send her up.”
“Oh thank Christ!” The concierge said out loud before he could stop
himself. “You, you can go up miss. Room forty seven, the lift’s right over
there.” He gestured to his left.
He was about to hang up when the woman slammed her hand on the
desk. “Hey, not so fast. I want two lobsters and a bottle of Champagne sent
up, Whitaker’s paying.”
“I heard her,” Whitaker said through the phone. “Get her whatever she
wants.”
“Yes sir,” The concierge said hanging up.
“And it better be the fucking good stuff, not some old piss poured into a
vintage bottle, understand?” The old woman narrowed her eyes suspiciously.
He nodded vigorously. “I’ll order it straight away, madam.”
She snorted at this and waddled over towards the lifts muttering
obscenities. Watching her go, the concierge thanked God she hadn’t asked
him to carry her filthy bags up for her. Yes he said to himself, this was one
shitty day.
“First things fuckin’ first, Tommy. What the fuck are you doing in a place
like this? Low profile!” She wasn’t even in the room yet and she was tearing a
strip off Whitaker. He stood there holding the door open and just took it.
“You’ve got the world and his dog looking for you, so where do you hide?”
She continued. “The fucking Hilton! I suppose because it’s out here in the
29
provinces and not London, you thought no one up here would know who the
fuck you are? Is that it? You numb bastard.”
“Good to see you too, Mary. Find the place alright?” Whitaker shot back.
He was desperately trying to keep his voice steady and his gaze firm, his best
court room façade, but he knew the old hag could see right through it. This
was only the second time he’d met Mary but that was two too many.
Mary barged past him and dumped her shopping bags onto the sofa, she
glanced around the hotel room with a look of mild disgust. “Yeah, I found the
place alright. Who the fuck is Marcus Carver when he’s at home anyway?”
Whitaker shrugged. “An artist’s agent I represented once. Think he’s
dead now. It was the first name that came into my head. If he isn’t dead, he
can sue me if he likes. Besides, you told me not to use my real name.”
“I did?” Mary seemed genuinely surprised. “Hmm, must have had a
good reason.” Then she seemed to remember. “Sharks!” She added.
“What?” Although he barely knew the woman, Whitaker had already
grown accustomed to her way with words. She would throw random
sentences around and then it was up to you to arrange them into some
semblance of order or meaning.
“What do you mean, what?” She said and waddled over to the mini bar,
which Whitaker had been attacking with a vengeance all day. She helped
herself to a gin.
“Mary,” Whitaker took a moment, he had to keep calm, had to remember
that what this raggerty old dear knew about the people who were after him
and Larry could save his life, and more besides if the rumours were true. “I
don’t have a lot of time.”
“Huh, no shit,” Mary snorted, and downed the gin in one, which made her
pull a face. “Do you have my money?”
Whitaker gestured to an envelope on the table. “Five thousand. Now
what exactly am I buying? Apart from your lovely company of course.”
“Protection, knowledge, a crash course in the world as it really is.
Standard stuff, should help, maybe, if you start thinking straight and lay off
the fucking booze.” With this she uncapped another mini gin and downed it.
“You must have a clear mind, Whitaker. I can only help you so far, given the
30
shit you’re drowning in right now, you and McCulloch. Pair of dumb shits that
you are. You know I could have sold you out for ten times that much?” Mary
abandoned the mini bar and picked up the envelope of money. She felt the
weight of it in her hand. “Hmm, tens and twenties, good boy.”
“So why didn’t you?” Whitaker suddenly wanted her gone, he was
desperate, yes, but had he really sunk this low? Taking protection advice
from a bag lady?
“I’m neutral,” she said. “Wouldn’t have been fair, let them find you in
their own way if that’s the way it has to be. You’ve hired me, I’ll do my best
for you, then I’m gone. You people can fight it out amongst yourselves. I
don’t give two shits if you’re dead by the end of the day, but if that’s the case,
it won’t be because of me. I’ll have done my bit, fair and square.” She tossed
the envelope into one of her bags and then dumped the contents of one of
the others onto the table.
“That’s very reassuring, thanks.” Whitaker watched as she rummaged
through the various charms and trinkets she had in the bag which were mixed
in with what looked for all the world like the contents of someone’s rubbish
bin.
“Where is it?” Mary said frowning, she picked up what looked like a
minute metal dream catcher, twirled it, then threw it back amongst the crap
and shook her head impatiently.
This drove Whitaker over to the mini bar, he took out a vodka popped
the cap and sipped it. “What’s all this about sharks anyway? Don’t tell me
Jaws is after me too?” This brought a smile to his face, the first one in what
felt like weeks. He finished the vodka and tossed the empty into the waste
basket.
“What?” Mary grunted. “What the fuck have sharks got to do with
anything?”
Whitaker turn to face her, she had laid out several of the trinkets, which
ranged from what looked like charms off a charm bracelet a couple of old
coins and another of the dream catcher things, on the coffee table by the sofa
and was now stuffing the rest back into the carrier bag. The vodka soothed
him a little. “You brought the fuckers up,” he said. “Now what are those
things for?” He gestured at the trinkets.
31
She gathered them together and gave him a sideways glance. “Now I’m
gonna tell you a bunch of stuff, Whitaker.” She said her tone serious. “Trust
me you won’t believe half of it. But that doesn’t matter, just follow my
instructions to the letter, and you may live a little longer.”
“I’m I gonna need another drink?”
“Shit, yeah. And pour me one too.” She said, “And Where’s my
champagne and Lobsters anyway? The service here is shit.” With this she
stretched out on the sofa and made herself at home. “You should try the
London Hilton, now that’s a fucking palace.”
If she kicks her shoes off I’m going out the window, Whitaker thought as
he watched her make herself at home, and once again the ghost of a smile
played on his lips. Christ, that’s twice in one day, he mused, maybe I should
keep this loon around for comic relief.
“Christ with egg in his beard! What are you grinning at man?” Mary
snapped. “I asked you about my lunch! I’m trying to save your soul here
fancy pants, the least you can do is feed a girl.”
The smile evaporated right off Whitaker’s face, along with the soothing
effect of the vodka, at the word; soul. He felt cold, his mouth suddenly dry.
Now he remembered why Mary was here, forget her eccentric dress and
comic foul mouth. This woman had knowledge of a world Whitaker knew
nothing about, but one he was now up to his neck in. ‘Supernatural shit’, she
had called it when they first met. Although the sane side of his brain wanted
to laugh off comments like that, it had only confirmed what he already knew.
He’d pissed of the darkness and now it was out there somewhere, looking for
Larry McCulloch, and the best way to find Larry? This idiot right here in the
Armani suit.
He physically shivered, suddenly cold as his mind drifted to a freezing
November night last year, of sitting in the relative warmth of his Mercedes
looking through a frost covered windscreen at six haunted faces standing in a
Polish field in the middle of nowhere, lit by the cars headlights waiting for
those around them to decided their fates. Six lives (and that word again
souls) saved, albeit unknowingly, by a con man and his greedy hot shot young
lawyer.
32
Whitaker shivered again and realised that while he had zoned out he had
wrapped his arms tightly around himself, for comfort or warmth he didn’t
know. He tried to speak but the words got caught in his dry throat. Mary was
staring at him with a perplexed look on her face, she had put her feet up on
the table, but thankfully her shoes were still on.
The mismatched pair looked at each other for what seem like an age, and
then Mary suddenly jumped to her feet, her face a blaze with recognition.
“Sharks!” She announced to the room at large. “Christ with a crew cut!
Sharks!” She clicked her fingers together for punctuation. “They can find you
through your name. That’s why I told you to use an alias.”
“What?”
“You’re name! It’s like sharks; they can sense movement in water from
miles away, or the merest drop of blood and all that discovery channel shit.
It’s the same with your name, Larry too I imagine. That’s one of the reasons
for the false name. If someone uses your name, even thinks it, it sends out
ripples of psychic energy, they can lock onto it, follow it to its source, like a
shark. You’ll need something to block this.” She examined the trinkets on the
table and frowned. “Fuck all here for that. Hmm.” Whitaker could almost
hear the cogs turning in her brain as she pondered.
“Fuck,” Whitaker whispered to himself in disbelief and pinched the bridge
of his nose between his thumb and fore-finder and screwed his eyes shut.
When he opened them again he half expected, hoped, she would be gone
along with all this madness. “What?” He said again, it was all his brain could
conjure up.
She held up a finger to silence him. “One second.” She put her fingers
into her mouth and began to pull at one of her front teeth.
Although she didn’t seem to feel any pain, Whitaker winced for her as
she tried to wrench the tooth free. “Mary, for Christ sake...”
She glared at him, her eyes watering then with a soft ‘pop’ pulled out a
bloodied gold tooth. She held it out to him with a gap toothed grin.
Whitaker stared at it incredulously. “Fuck that!” He said.
She rolled her eyes and spat out a mouthful of blood onto the insanely
expensive carpet. “Don’t be such a big girl’s blouse, Whitaker. You can clean
33
it first!” She lisped. That’s worth more than five hundred on its own. Calved
it myself, take a look.”
With this she tossed it to Whitaker who caught it without thinking and
was surprised at its weight. He shuddered, rolling it around the palm of his
hand, and was about to throw it in the waste din when he saw it was covered
in an intricate pattern of lines, shapes and symbols, carved by a master
craftsman, or woman in this case.
“Don’t worry,” Mary said. “You don’t have to get it inserted or anything,”
she laughed at this and spat out more bloody saliva. “Just keep it with you,
it’s got a pretty good range. Should block any ripples from your name. You
can use your name, and any one close to you can, and you should be ok. Or
at least I think so.” She waddled over to the mini bar, trailing lilac, and took
out another small bottle of gin, she took a drink and swilled it around her
mouth before spitting it out in the vague direction of the waste bin.
Whitaker held up the tooth to the light. “Now I can safely say I’ve seen it
all.”
Mary grunted at his side. “You ain’t seen or heard shit yet,” she said,
taking another drink, this time she swallowed and smacked her lips.
Ripples from your name? Charms made out of gold teeth? All of a
sudden, Whitaker felt like he was the subject of some elaborate reality TV
prank show. Not felt, wished. He felt faint all of a sudden. He vaguely heard
the knock at the door and for a second mused that maybe it was the prank
show host about to burst in to reveal all and tell Whitaker it was all a joke and
he was free to go home and back to his gilt edged life.
But if it was the host, then he was doing a damn good job as disguising
himself as room service, Mary instructed the kid to bring in the lobster and
champagne and then get the hell out, he even though he heard her threaten
to pull out another tooth if the kid wanted a tip.
Evidently he didn’t, judging by the speed in which he exited. Mary was
mumbling something as she sat down and attacked the lobster. But all
Whitaker could hear was the blood rushing through his ears and his stomach
doing back flips. He looked down at the blooded tooth in his sweaty palm.
Later, after she had demolished the lobsters and drained most of the
champagne, Mary would tell him everything she knew about the darkness
34
that was coming and what laid in wait for him inside it should it ever catch up
and smother him. And as she spoke, Whitaker could feel the last vestiges his
of sanity slowly slipping away.
SIX
The door to Mitch’s late night café and bar opened and the last two bar
staff came out into the cold night air and walked briskly off together down
the deserted street. Bill Fraker watched them from the grateful warmth of his
BMW parked discreetly in the shadows on the other side of the road as they
turned the corner and disappeared from sight.
This was the part that always gave Fraker butterflies, every time no
matter how many times he had done it, those moments of calm, alone with
his own thoughts when his mind would wander unbidden to the any number
of scenarios, (hardly any of which leaned towards the positive) that could play
out in the next ten minutes or so.
And it was usually around this time, stuck in a car at three in the morning
waiting for the impending violence, that Bill Fraker thought about getting fit
again. After all he was no spring chicken anymore, he would be forty eight in
two months and the thirty-six inch waistband of his trousers was beginning to
dig into his belly again. And he had vowed to himself once that he would
never buy a pair of trousers over that size, so that meant one of two things:
Elastic waistband or dropping some poundage.
He leaned across to the passenger side and clicked open the glove
compartment and reached inside, the first thing he felt was the hip flask,
newly topped up an hour ago and for a second Fraker thought about taking a
swig, just to calm the nerves but cursed to himself and pushed it aside. That
bollocks was for amateurs, he would need a clear head and only after they
were safely back in the car and away would he allow himself a drink, to toast
the end of another successful night. Successful because he still had a pulse.
After further groping his fingers finally found the cold metal of the
berretta and Fraker took the pistol out and rested it on his lap. Now all he
had to do was wait for Charlie, who as usual had gone to take a piss at the
most inopportune time.
35
Fraker had unofficially taken on the role of Charlie Walker’s mentor over
the last six months due to the fact Charlie’s Dad had been diagnosed with
cancer and had to retire. Just as Charles Walker senior had done for him
twenty odd years ago when he had first got sucked into this life of crime.
Charlie was a good kid really but he was only twenty four and was a little too
much into the whole ‘gangster’ (but pronounced with an ‘a’ at the end
apparently) lifestyle for Fraker’s liking.
Charlie had already been a part of things on a very low level before his
Dad’s illness, working behind the bar at one of the clubs or chauffeuring
people about for the boss, Mister Lyne, all of which had been legal up to a
point, but was still kept quiet about around Charlie’s Dad at the time until his
cancer had taken him out of the business and into a hospital ward. So now
that no one had to tiptoe around Walker senior, Charlie had taken the next
step up into the real world. It was a running joke that Charlie’s Dad didn’t
know anything about his Son’s involvement with the firm.
Charles Walker senior had worked as a gangster all his adult life, but
rightly so didn’t want this kind of life for his two kids, Charlie and his sister,
Kate (the brains of the family). And so genuinely thought that Charlie was an
estate agent and would often brag about how well he was doing, even
though everyone else knew Charlie was off driving some dodgy judge around
or running errands for the boss. No one ever said anything out of respect for
him, that and of course the fact that mister Lyne had made it very clear he
would maim anyone who did personally. The joke had soured recently
though, now that Charlie’s Dad was, although no one would openly admit it,
dying.
At last a familiar skinny frame appeared out of an alleyway up the street
from where Fraker was parked and began ambling down towards him.
Charlie was mouthing something to himself as he approached and Fraker
knew he was doing what he always did at this time, going over his lines ready
for the fun and games about to kick off.
Fraker got out of the car and concealed the pistol under his jacket as
Charlie finally reached him. “Take yer time, sparky, no rush.” Fraker said
sarcastically.
Charlie shrugged. “Hey, when you’ve gotta go, you’ve gotta go.” Fraker
passed him the pistol, which Charlie put in the back of his trousers.
36
“Very ‘Gangsta’.” Fraker snorted.
“Huh? Are we on then?” Walker said vacantly looking across at the café.

“Only about five minutes ago. What was the hold up, couldn’t you find
it?” Not waiting for a response, Fraker started purposely across the road and
over to the café. Walker had to jog to keep up. Fraker could hear the kid
whispering to himself over and over; “Look at this Mitch, look at this Mitch.”
The older man exhaled despairingly as they reached the door and turned
to him. “Christ Charlie, that’s my line.”
“Huh?” Charlie looked blankly at him for a moment then the mist
seemed to clear. “Oh, yeah.”
“Jesus,” Fraker gave him his best steely stare and backhanded him on the
chest. “Charles, look at me. Focus. Are you set?”
Charlie jumped up and down on the spot a couple of times, psyching
himself up. “I am set,” he said firmly and let out a few short sharp breaths.
“Set,” he added for emphasis.
Not entirely convinced, Fraker turned and knocked hard on the cafes
door, there was silence for a moment, then someone on the other side
shouted, “We’re closed!” Fraker didn’t answer and hammered on the door
again, this time more insistently. He could feel heartbeat increase at the
sound of footsteps approaching from the other side and resisted the urge to
take his pulse by the vein in his neck which was throbbing now.
‘Got to get fit,’ he thought, ‘one of these days I’m just going to keel over.’
Bizarrely the thought made him smile slightly, imagining Charlie’s face as he
just drops dead, leaving him to deal with the guy about to open the door all
on his own. The sound of keys in the door and a bolt being thrown back
snapped Fraker out of it and as the door opened he made a fist...
There was no two ways about it, Charlie Walker was watching a master at
work and it never ceased to amaze him. He lent casually against the bar and
watched as Fraker calmly helped the bar’s owner, Mitch, get unsteadily to his
feet. The poor fellow was coughing and spluttering, still reeling from the
almighty punch Fraker had just landed square on his nose seconds before
37
which had sent him sprawling to the floor knocking tables and chairs all over
the place in the process.
“B, Bill, Bill no wait...” Mitch pleaded nasally half blinded by tears and
shock.
Fraker picked up one of the over turned chairs. “Sssh, Mitch, come on,
calm down. Here give me your hand.” Fraker said softly and helped Mitch to
his feet. “That’s better, come on, take a seat.” He guided the dazed bar
owner over to the chair and sat him down, then he took a chair for himself,
swivelled it around so it was backwards and sat on it facing Mitch with his
arms resting casually on the backrest.
Charlie watched all this while desperately trying to keep a straight face,
he’d seen it dozens of times and it never got old. Fraker studied Mitch
silently for a moment, letting the chaos of their entrance settle somewhat,
then he frowned as if noticing Mitch’s busted nose for the first time.
“Here Mitch, your nose is bleeding.” Fraker pulled out his handkerchief
and handed to Mitch who took it with a trembling hand.
Classic, thought Charlie. Every time they did this he would always take
mental notes of the way Fraker moved and the soothing tone of his voice. Bill
Fraker was a big intimidating man, they could have easily gone in shouting
and screaming, smashing the place to pieces. But Charlie knew Fraker had
learned throughout the years that this was always the best approach, or at
least the one he preferred.
One minute he had smacked the guy in the face, the next he was all
smiles and genuine concern. Poor Mitch, just like all the others who were on
his end of the routine, didn’t know if he was coming or going. ‘If they don’t
know if you’re going to kiss or kill them,’ Fraker had once told him. ‘Then they
won’t know how to react. So once you’re on top of the situation, you stay on
top, with minimal bloodshed and tears all round.’
Still stunned, Mitch pressed the handkerchief to his bleeding nose, which
caused him to take a sharp intake of breath. “B, Bill, Ch-Ch, Charlie,” he
stammered. “I was going to call you lads, I swear.”
Fraker held up his hands in a defensive gesture. “Hey, Mitch, come on,
you don’t have to explain yourself to us. We know you’ve been busy. Don’t
we Charlie?”
38
Charlie nodded on cue. “Hell aye.”
The bar owner swung his head glancing between Fraker and Charlie,
sending beads of sweat flying off his forehead. “Really, it’s been bedlam in
here the past couple of weeks,” he said.
Fraker nodded, listening intently to the man. “I can imagine, Mitch. Like
I said we trust you, you’re a general good egg and you’ve always been
straight with me. Which goes a long way in my book, believe me.” Fraker
paused as if fighting to find the right words. “It’s just, it’s just the boss. You
see he gets these headaches, and they do tend to make the old git bad
tempered at times. Unreasonable some might say, although not to his face.
So we’re just here to put his mind at rest. I mean twenty thousand pounds,
that’s a lot of money, Mitch.”
There was no edge to Fraker’s voice at all, he just seemed to want to help
him, not break any bones. Charlie could see Mitch pick up on this as a lifeline
and grabbed onto it with both hands. “Yeah, yeah, of course,” he babbled. “I
understand, really I do, and I appreciate how patient you’ve all been. Believe
me, now that the place has taken off, he’ll get it all back, plus the interest.
You see that’s what the loan was for, I needed a refit to pull in the punters.”
Fraker looked around the place admiringly. “See?” Mitch added hopefully,
hanging on Fraker’s every move.
“And that’s money well spent too, the place looks great.” Fraker said.
Although Mitch was the wrong side of fifty and had been in the pub game all
his adult life, he had been quick to see the potential in the whole part café,
part bar thing. Unfortunately for him, the banks hadn’t shared his vision so he
had had to turn to Mister Lyne’s ‘Loans’ department for financial support.
“No problem pulling people in?” Charlie adlibbed.
Mitch jumped slightly as though he had forgotten Charlie was there. He
shook his head like an idiot. “No, not at all, the place is heaving after the
pubs close,” he said.
“Nice one,” Charlie said and moved along the bar so he was directly
behind Mitch, which meant he had to crane his neck around so see him.
Mitch didn’t like that at all.
“Yep,” Mitch’s head snapped back to face Fraker as he spoke. “It’s the
dog’s biscuits, eh Charlie?”
39
“Oh, yeah,” Charlie said. “Even I’d drink here.”
Raising his eyebrows Fraker and looked at Mitch, impressed. “Now that
is praise indeed, you know how fussy he can be.” He gestured to Charlie.
“Take that suit. Guess how much it cost?”
“Ooh dunno,” Mitch shrugged. “Looks expensive.” He absently dabbed
his nose as he spoke which make him wince but at least it had finally stopped
bleeding.
“One thousand English pounds!” Fraker declared a little too loudly
making Mitch flinch. “A thousand quid for a fucking suit, pardon my French.
Flash git.” Fraker ran his fingers down his own suit’s lapels. “This cost me one
hundred tops. Never pay more than a ton for a suit, Mitchell and you won’t
go far wrong my friend.” Mitch nodded, clearly wanting them gone so he
could throw up.
At this Charlie gave a sigh of genuine disgust and hissed through his
teeth. “Philistine,” Fraker ignored this as he was absently looking around the
bar again admiring the new fixtures and fittings. Then after a long, very
uncomfortable silence, which was timed to perfection, Charlie gave a little
cough, which prompted Fraker back to the business at hand.
“What, huh?” Fraker said seemingly a little disorientated. “Oh, yeah
sorry, Mitch. I was miles away there. Right then, so, I can give Mister Lyne my
personally guarantee you’ll pay the money back?”
“Oh, Christ yeah, every penny, plus the interest.” Mitch nodded
vigorously which seemed to make his head spin judging by the way his eyes
rolled.
“Right then, on my head be it and all that as they say.” Seemingly
satisfied Fraker then made a move to stand, which earned an almost audible
sigh of relief from Mitch. But then he stopped, mid-movement, as if he’d just
remembered something and then sat right back down again. “Oh, yeah, while
we’re here... Charlie?” Fraker held out his hand to Charlie who reached behind
him and pulled out the pistol from the back of his trousers. He took a step
towards Fraker and handed him the weapon, Fraker then expertly popped out
the ammunition clip and pushed out a bullet with his thumb.
As he was doing this, Charlie couldn’t help but glance at Mitch, who
seeing the gun had gone quite remarkably pale and watched Fraker slack
40
jawed as he slammed the clip back into the pistol and handed it back to
Charlie.
“Whoa, whoa, hang on, Bill...” Mitch babbled in disbelief. But Fraker
didn’t look up straight away, he just turned the bullet over in his hand for a
few seconds letting Mitch stew a little longer, then finally held it between his
thumb and forefinger and raised it up for him to see.
Showtime: They called it the Kneecap Routine.
Fraker squinted at the bullet and moved it slightly so the light glinted off
its metal casing. “Look at this Mitch,” Fraker eventually said. “This is a nine
millimetre Parabellum jacketed hollow point round. It’s the type the I.R.A
used to use in the good old days if they were gonna kneecap someone...”
As Fraker spoke, Charlie moved back directly behind Mitch and said, “You
see Mitch...” Mitch jumped a mile and once again had to crane his neck
around to see him as he spoke. “It’s not big enough to cause any permanent
damage. But it is big enough for you to know about it if you did get shot
with one...”
Fraker’s turn, “Now, the I.R.A always used to shoot you through the front
of the knee, usually as a warning. It would hurt like bloody hell but you could
walk again in what, six to eight weeks?”
“It’s not meant to cripple you,” Charlie continued, “It’s just sort of one
step up from a slap on the wrist so to speak, albeit a heck of a lot more
painful, eh Bill?”
“Absolutely. Now me and Charlie here were talking about this, and we
figured, if we were gonna kneecap someone...” Mitch was now sweating
profusely, he screwed his eyes tight shut, perhaps hoping when he opened
them this would all be just a bad dream.
“We’d shoot them through the back of the knee...” Charlie said gleefully.
Feeling nauseas Mitch opened his eyes again, nope they were still both
there. He looked at Fraker who lent forward a little. “Yeah, so the bullet
would exit through the front of the knee,” he gently tapped Mitch’s kneecap.
“About here.”
41
Charlie began pacing around enthused. Mitch was looking about fit to
pass out now, he opened his mouth but nothing came out. “Yeah, yeah. And
we’d use one of those soft nosed bullets or a dum-dum.”
The light caught the bullet again as Fraker rolled it between his thumb
and forefinger. “So,” Fraker continued. “When it hits the patella it would
shatter into dozens of minute metal splinters, which would each, in turn, tear
through the flesh, bone and cartilage of the kneecap before exiting in a dozen
different places...”
Charlie shoved his hands in his pocket and sat casually on the edge of a
table just behind Fraker’s right shoulder. “We figured it would actually take
off your entire knee. Not to mention what it would do to your trousers.” He
smiled and nodded to himself as if picturing this in his mind’s eye.
“Uhuh,” Fraker nodded also then added ruefully, “And with the NHS
being what it is these days...” (Pause for effect.) “You’d never walk again.”
Both Charlie and Fraker stared off in to space, lost in the moment. The
room would have been pin drop quiet were it not for Mitch’s ragged
breathing. Then after a suitably long pause Fraker snapped out of it and
looked at the poor bar owner sit opposite him, even Fraker was surprised at
his deathly pallor.
“Ooph, sorry mate,” he said. “I was miles away there. Don’t even know
why I brought it up. It’s just an idea me and Charlie have been playing
around with.”
“Yeah, we don’t get out much,” Charlie added.
Fraker lent forward again and placed the bullet carefully into Mitch’s
sweaty palm. “Here, this is for you. Call it a souvenir.”
“Right then,” Charlie said buttoning up his expensive coat right to the
top. “That’s us. Goodnight, Mitch.” And with that he walked over to the door
and with a casual, “Cheers” over his shoulder he disappeared outside.
Satisfied at a job well done and with the minimum of violence, Fraker
also got to his feet. Nobody got shot, and he had no doubts that poor Mitch
would pay on time from now on. It was just like he told Charlie, It was all
about controlling the situation, stamping your authority on it before anything
bad can develop and this had been a text book example tonight.
42
He buttoned up his jacket and looked down at Mitch, who was still
staring at the bullet in his trembling hand, and felt a tinge of remorse which
came out of nowhere. Fraker had been using the kneecap routine for years
now, he had recited it so many times, with Charlie and others that its threat of
underlying violence was lost on him now. It was just that, a routine, everyone
he knew it in this line of work and had their own version of it, people added
their own little flourishes here and there, like any good joke. Learn it, then
make it your own.
He patted Mitch on the shoulder then said a little softer than he had
meant, “See you later, mate,” and walked away. Although he was sure Mitch
hadn’t heard him, let alone picked up on the tone of his voice, Fraker silently
cursed himself for getting soft and stepped out into the cold night air. It had
started to snow since they had been inside and the ground was covered with
a light dusting. Charlie was waiting by the car, stamping his feet to keep
warm. ‘That’s it,’ Fraker thought digging into his pocket for the keys. ‘Get fit
the first chance I get and stop thinking so much. It’s all just part of the job.’
As he got to the car, Charlie beamed at him. “I thought that went well,”
he said.
“Yeah, your delivery’s getting better.”
“Yeah? Nice one.”
They got into the car and as Fraker pulled away he remembered the hip
flask in the glove compartment and he brightened up somewhat. He would
demolish it once he’d dropped Charlie off. For some reason the kid didn’t
drink which made him a freak in Fraker’s eyes. Life without alcohol? Fraker
thought, Jesus, He couldn’t think of a worse kind of hell.
SEVEN
“Sharks!? Tommy, what the fuck have sharks got to do with anything?”
Larry got up from off his bed and double checked the caller id on his phone
just to make sure he was taking to the right person and not some prankster.
Yep it was Tommy Whitaker alright. Right person, if not in his right mind.
Tommy had been babbling at him for the best part of five minutes, not letting
43
him get a word in edge ways. Something about sharks and eternal
damnation.
“Tommy, calm down, you’re not making a drop of sense.” The truth was
there was something in Whitaker’s voice that unnerved Larry. Total
conviction. “Tom...” He tried to interrupt, but Whitaker was in full flow now.
“Christ!!” Whitaker shrieked down the other end. “How many times?
Don’t use my fucking name. They’ll know, can’t you understand? They’ll feel
the ripples and find me. And if they find me, they’ll sure as shit find you.
Mary gave me the tooth, but I just don’t know if it’ll work, can’t take that
chance. Don’t use my name and I won’t use yours.”
Tooth? Mary? Larry was close to total despair now. “Calm down, T...” He
caught himself from saying Whitaker’s name just in time, no use in agitating
him any more than he already was, not that he thought that was remotely
possible, given his state of near hysteria. “Take a fucking breath will you?”
“No, no time, they’re onto us, I know. I know everything now, we’re
fucked, damned. I know now... I know who’s after us, I know what they are.”
Whitaker said, the word what was a whisper.
Larry cupped his hand over the mouth piece. “Peroni!” He shouted.
“Get in here, for Christ sake.” This was all going to shit, he’d been trying to
get hold of Whitaker for days, to chew him out about setting him up with this
shower of shit he was holed up with. And now that Whitaker had actually
contacted him, he had turned into a maniac almost from the moment Larry
answered.
“You there, you still there?” Whitaker sounded scared as hell.
“I’m here, Tommy,” he winced having used his name again and braced
himself for more lunacy but instead was met by silence. “You still there?” He
said sharply.
Finally Peroni poked her head around the door. “Whatssup?” she said.
And Larry mouthed Tommy Whitaker to her. “Get him to come in,” she said
and came into the room. “Tell him we can protect him.”
“They want you to come in.” Larry said into the phone.
“Who?” Whitaker said, and Larry could tell he was pacing as he spoke.
44
He sighed. “The police, MI5! The ones you did the deal with, remember?
I’m with one of them now. She says they can protect you.” Secretly Larry
wanted Whitaker to turn himself in, just so he could wring his neck.
There was more silence at the other end, then out of the blue Whitaker
screamed down the phone; “Jesus! What if they’re listening in right now?
Mary said they can use phone signals to track you down. Shit. I’ve gotta go
I’ve gotta go!”
It was so loud even Peroni winced. “Mary, who the fuck is Mary?” Larry
asked, his voice cracking with emotion. “And why would the police want to
trace this call? They’re standing right fucking here.” Larry cupped his hand
over the mouth piece again and looked up at the heavens. “Christ on a
crutch.” He cursed.
“No you idiot!” Whitaker shouted. “Not the police, Christ if only it was
the police we have to worry about.” He began to sob pitifully, it turned
Larry’s stomach.
“If not the police, then who?” Larry tried to keep his voice steady.
Peroni made a face and shrugged. “Larry,” she whispered grabbing his
arm, “Tell him to come in.”
He pulled his arm away. “Tommy!” This made Whitaker shriek again.
“Oh shut up,” Larry snapped. “Pull yourself together and come on in, for
Christ sake. I’m the one everyone wants dead Whit-a-ker,” he lingered on his
name deliberately. “No one gives a shit about you.”
“I’m going McCulloch, and don’t fucking call me again, you hear? You’re
fucked and you’re not taking me with you. You hear!?” His voice was so loud
it distorted.
“What?” Larry said incredulously. “You called me, you fucking lunatic!”
The phone went dead. “Jesus!” Larry tossed the phone onto his bed and sat
down next to it.
Peroni picked up the phone. “Whitaker?”
“He’s gone,” Larry said shaking his head in disbelief. “Fucking nutter,
that’s all I need.”
45
Peroni hit the redial last call button and listened. “What did he say,
Larry? Exactly, it may be important.” She frowned and turned off the phone.
“He’s not answering.”
“Huh, no shit.” Spat Larry.
“Larry!” Her voice was sharp. He finally looked up at her. “What did he
say?” She asked again this time a little more gently.
“Christ, I dunno,” Larry shrugged. “Couldn’t make out half of it. He kept
saying he knew everything now. And some bollocks about not using his
name.” Larry remembered that tone of absolute conviction in Whitaker’s
voice, and he physically shook his head to dislodge the memory. “Kept saying
they could trace him just be someone saying his name.”
Peroni took out her own phone. “No names? Just, they? She said.
“Yeah, just they.” Larry got to his feet and heard his aching knees crack.
This was all wrong he thought and rubbed the back of his neck. “Shit,” he
said, something occurred to him. “Does Whitaker know about this place?”
“What?” Peroni clearly took an affront at this. “Give us a little credit,
Larry.” She said. “No one else knows about this place.” She paused a second.
“Oh, apart from the full page ad we took out in the Evening Post, that is. You
may have seen it, it had directions and everything.”
Oh, great, thought Larry. I’m back in a fucking sitcom again. And not
one of those good American ones. We’re talking BBC 3 here. He laughed out
loud at his own joke, Whitakers raving forgotten for a second. Peroni gave
him a funny look. “Yep, BBC 3.” He said obliquely.
She narrowed her eyes and looked ready to retort but evidently thought
better off it. (Where was Lewis when you wanted him?) “Still,” she finally said.
“Shame about Whitaker, we could have helped him. I’m going to report this.”
She moved to leave but turned back as she reached the door. “Oh and I’m
sure you’ll be glad to learn, the boss should be here soon. Best you tell him
everything Whitaker said to you, might be important.”
At last, something was going right. The elusive boss of this shambles
was on his way and that meant things could finally start to move forwards.
Whitaker had clearly lost his mind, that much was plain, but Larry didn’t need
him any longer. Peroni was about to leave when Larry called her back. “Hey,
46
well it’s about fucking time. And to hell with Tommy Whitaker,” he said. “If
he thinks he’s actually going to get paid for setting up this farce, he truly is
out of his fucking mind.”
“I think getting paid is the least of his problems now, Larry.” Peroni said
and Larry caught the hint of a melancholy smile on her face. Then she seemed
to remember something. “Did Whitaker make any mention of an American?”
“Huh? No. Why?”
She shook her head. “Nothing.” With this she disappeared out the door.
Leaving Larry with at least half a dozen questions.
So the yanks were in on this too by the sounds of it. Well they could take
a number and get in line as far as Larry was concerned. He glanced at his
phone on the bed and did a quick tally of people in his head that he could
call to get him the hell out of here if he needed to. It came to a grand total of
none. Whitaker had been his last hope and that made him feel like crying,
but he sucked it up. “Shit’s creek.” He said and wiped his eyes, which were
watering all the same.



EIGHT
As Thomas Whitaker, thanks to just a few short minutes with Mary the
gold toothed bag lady and sometime shaman, was now all too aware. The
world in which he was living had a very thin veneer of reality. Those who,
intentionally or not, come to scrape the surface and see what lies beneath
could not fail to be touched by what they found lurking there.
Whether it was physically or emotionally (but mostly both) no one who
happened upon that world, (beneath the world we think we know) comes out
of that experience unscathed. Some chose to hide in the comfort of madness,
others take their own lives to be rid of the nightmares. And others still,
although in the minority of the three options, choose sides.
47
Father Peter Nichols had just turned thirty, half his lifetime ago now,
when his old life had ended, ripped to pieces in a frenzy of blood and blind
panic one September night in the apparent safety of his own church by those
razor clawed nightmares who called the darkest of the dark shadows their
home.
Nichols had only been given charge of his new church St. James’ in
Brighton a year previous when the unseen, but ageless war fought in the
corner of reality’s eye came, literally, knocking on his vestry door. In the
grand scheme of things the young priest had been little more than a
bystander to the events that unfolded that night, which in hindsight probably
explained how he had got the hell out of there with most, if not all of his skin
and bodily fluids intact.
“Weird city,” The young Father Nichols whispered to himself with a shake
of the head. He leant against the kitchen door frame and stared at the
Demon sitting at his kitchen table eating a bowl of cereal and watching the
portable television perched on the work top. Whereas it was true that evil
could sometimes be on the mundane side, this was bordering on the
ridiculous. But a Demon this was, in human form. And that was straight from
the Vatican itself.
What had Cardinal Santini called it? A soldier of darkness. A collector of
souls. This raggedy old man who had appeared at his church just before
midnight seeking sanctuary dressed in an ill-fitting tatty suit and overcoat, his
hair, which looked like it hadn’t been washed or cut in months hung down
over his face as he ate and coupled with his massive equally unkempt beard
left little room for any recognizable facial features and what little there was
showing was caked in grime.
This man who Nichols had assumed was a tramp was anything but that.
This man was a soldier of darkness alright, and quite a celebrity by all
accounts in the right circles, an agent of evil, but one who had grown tired of
the never ending war between light and dark and wanted to surrender.
Its name was Macready and its impending defection had been what the
Cardinal had called the most significant event in the war against evil since the
discovery of something called Mynor’s Poem some hundred years ago.
During his increasingly surreal telephone conversation with Cardinal Santini,
Nichols had thought it was best to keep to himself the fact that he had no
48
idea who on earth this Mynor character was when he was at home, let alone
that he didn’t have a clue what was so important about his poem, and what
that had to do with the fight against evil.
Mostly because the Cardinal spoke of these things as if both were
common knowledge to any Catholic priest worth his salt. And once the call
was over, Nichols was left with the uneasy feeling he had just taken a big step
into a world he knew nothing about, and that it was a world of magic, and not
the good rabbit out of the hat type.
Macready looked up from his cereal, seeing Nichols in the doorway.
“So,” he said through a mouthful of corn flakes and Nichols caught the hint of
a soft Scottish accent. “What did they say?”
“It was just like you said,” Nichols replied. “They are going to send
someone over to check you out.” The Demon nodded and picked a piece of
corn flake out of his beard. “I mean,” Nichols continued. “They can’t very well
have Demons running around the Vatican unchecked now, can they?” Even
as he said it, Nichols couldn’t actually believe he’d just used those words in
that particular order without smiling. God, how he longed for the bliss of
ignorance again.
He could almost feel his grip on sanity slipping away moment by
moment, especially when Macready grunted in response and said, “Huh,
wouldn’t be the first time.”
Yes, the more Nichols found out about this clandestine world he had
been thrust into, the more he wanted nothing to do with it. That was a choice
of course he no longer had. For whatever reason Macready had chosen his
church to hide out in, so like it or not Nichols was up to his neck in all this.
Whatever all this turned out to be.
“So when are they coming?” Macready asked.
“Cardinal says they should be here tomorrow, early afternoon.”
“What? What’s the hold up?” Nichols was slightly taken aback at the
shock in Macready voice.
“Hey, don’t blame me,” he said defensively. “Apparently there isn’t
anyone suitable in England, they are sending over a team from the Vatican.
You’re quite the celebrity over there.”
49
“Shit,” Macready smiled and gave a shake of the head. “I’ll bet.” He
stared down into his cereal lost in thought and Nichols could see a look of
concern on his half hidden features. “I’m gonna need some plain paper. You
got any?”
“Paper? What for?”
“Protection,” Macready said without looking up. “It’s going to be a long
night, Father.” He frowned and after a moments contemplation adding. “Yes
sir, a long night.”
Protection? What the hell did that mean? Nichols shook the question
out of his head, but he had a feeling there would be a lot more of them
before the night was over. “Paper, paper, right,” he mumbled absently as he
thought. “Yeah, will a note pad do?” he asked.
“Sure,” Macready said finishing off his corn flakes.
“Sure,” Nichols echoed and began searching through one of the kitchen
draws, he pulled out a faded pad of headed note paper which had the sketch
of the church in one corner, he held it up to Macready. “Will this do?”
“Yeah, paper’s paper, doesn’t have to be anything special,” he squinted at
the sketch on the top page. “What’s that, this place?”
“Uhuh,” Nichols nodded and tossed the pad onto the table in front of
him the when back to rummaging in the draw. “You need a pen?” He turned
back to Macready as the Demon gave a snort.
“No,” Macready said with a genuine smile. He pushed the cereal bowl
over to one side and slipped the pad over to himself he looked at the sketch
more closely. “No pen required.” With this he began tearing sheets of paper
off the pad and then tearing those into several roughly three inch squares
which he then set out in front of him on the table.
“What are you doing?” Nichols asked more than a little bemused.
In response Macready pulled a small pocket pen knife out of his coat
pocket and snapped it open, he grinned mischievously at Nichols who was
surprised to see that it revealed a perfect set of white teeth. “You got
anything to drink?” He asked. Nichols was looking at the knife’s rusty blade
so didn’t answer. “Hey, Father?” Macready prompted.
“Huh?”
50
“Drink?”
“Oh, yeah, sure.” Nichols snapped out of it somewhat. “I think I have
some brandy around here somewhere.
“I was thinking more on the lines of tea. Haven’t had a decent cup of tea
in years.” Macready pulled the knife across the palm of his left hand cutting
deep into it, Nichols winced at the action but Macready didn’t even flinch. He
squeezed his hand into a fist and let the blood drip into a small pool on the
table, next he spat into it and began to mix the two together with the tip of
the knife humming tunelessly to himself. Nichols watched all this transfixed,
he was about to ask him what the hell he was doing when Macready looked
up at him. “Tea?” He asked again.
“Tea?” Nichols said flatly.
“Yeah, tea. I don’t drink alcohol.”
“I assumed you’d drink human blood or something.” Nichols said, only
half joking.
“Get a grip.” Macready replied testily. “And make it sweet, four sugars,
I’m gonna need to keep my strength up If I’m gonna be holed up here all
night.” This said he returned to his mixing.
“Fair enough,” Nichols said with a shrug. The guy is bleeding all over my
table and he wants a cup of tea, why not? He picked up the kettle, filled it
with water and set it to boil. When he turned back Macready had finished
mixing the spit and blood, he then dipped the tip of the knife in the
concoction and using it like a fountain pen began drawing a series of runic
symbols on each of the pieces of paper. “That’s your protection?”
When Macready had finished drawing on the last of the paper, twelve in
all, he looked up at the priest. “That’s right,” he nodded over to one wall
which had an old crucifix on it. “These’ll work a damn sight better than that
old trinket.” He passed his open hand over the pieces of paper mumbling
some incantation or other under his breath.
Nichols folded his arms and lent back against the worktop and watched
the old Demon, he still just looked like a tramp, and had it not been for the
call to the Vatican he would give the man his tea and a bite to eat then send
51
him on his way. He tried to make out what he was saying but his beard and
the strange language made lip reading impossible.
The kettle switched itself off as it finished boiling and Nichols was about
to turn to make Macready his sweet tea when the dozen painted squares
fluttered as if touched by a light breeze as his hand passed over them and
Nichols could have sworn he could see what looked like a faint heat haze type
distortion coming from Macready’s down turned palm. It was a nice trick
Nichols thought, but surely that’s all it was.
“Fuck,” Macready winced in pain and shook his hand. He blew on his
hand and made a couple of fists. “You know what the annoying thing is?” He
said to Nichols. The priest shook his head slightly, still bemused at the magic
show. “I’m dead, but that still hurts like hell. What’s that all about?”
The question was so genuine and made without even the slightest hint of
humour that all Nichols could do was shrug. “I’m dead and I can still feel
pain,” Macready continued. “That’s one thing I never got. I get hungry, but
I’m pretty sure I can’t starve to death, I’ve been shot, stabbed, you name it
down through the years. Yet I can’t die, not by the conventional ways
anyhow. So what’s the point of the whole pain thing?” Macready stared off
into space, clearly perplexed by his condition.
“You’re asking me? Nichols replied even though the question was clearly
rhetorical. Macready’s voice was so weary all of a sudden, almost melancholy.
That Nichols suddenly felt sorry for the old man, because in the end that’s all
he could see him as, not some Demon from the pit, some collector of souls.
Just a weary old man who had had enough of what Cardinal Santini had
called the great fight. Nichols tore himself away and made Macready his tea,
he put in the four sugars gave it a good stir then place the mug down on the
table in from of the old man.
“Thanks,” he said softly and gathered up the pieces of paper into a loose
pile. He took a sip of the tea and nodded appreciatively. “Perfect.”
“Tea and sympathy,” Nichols said. “The British way.”
“I’ve missed it.” Macready smiled ruefully and took another sip, this time
he smacked his lips. “Hmm,”
“What are you?” The question escaped Nichols lips before he even
thought about asking it.
52
“What am I, truthfully?” Macready lent back in his chair and folded his
arms, he looked off into space for several seconds thinking, then finally
turned to the priest. “I’m tired,” he said plainly.
“Cardinal Santini called you a Demon.”
Macready let out a little laugh at this. “It’s a little more complicated than
that, Father.” He leaned forwards again and collected all the pieces of paper
together then began shuffling them like they were playing cards, all except
one which he left face down on the table. “But no, I’m not a Demon. I was a
man, once, just like you only without the faith. I wasn’t made, as much as I
was...” He paused, thinking of the right words. “As I was recruited, years ago
now.”
“By the Devil?” Nichols asked. Again he couldn’t believe what he was
saying.
“Fuck knows,” Macready shrugged. “It’s all a game, you see? Your side,
my side. One long never ending, pointless game. They don’t want mindless
robots, they have real Demons for that. I was picked because I had a natural
aptitude for causing mischief, that’s all.”
“And now you’ve had enough?”
The old man nodded. “I just can’t do this anymore,” he frowned and
chewed on his lower lip. “Christ, the shit I’ve done.” Nichols watched his
grubby hands absently handling the papers.
The young priest watched him lost in thought for a full minute, although
he was loathed to break the spell he finally said, “The Cardinal called you a
defector. Said you wanted to come over to our side.” Whatever our side
actually meant.
Out of nowhere tears came to Macready’s eyes, but his voice remained
steady. “I’m a traitor,” he said flatly and looked up at Nichols, but the sorrow
in them made the priest look away instantly. Nichols studied his feet as
Macready continued. “In the end that’s all I am. Just a traitor to my own kind.
It’s just...” Now his voice cracked with emotion slightly, he paused trying to
keep his tone level. “I just want it all to end. If someone doesn’t do
something it’s all just going to go on and on forever.”
53
Nichols chanced a look up to see Macready staring at the papers in his
hands. “I’ve spilt enough blood over the years to drown an army, Father.” He
exhaled and placed the papers in a pile on the table in front of him, then after
a moment added. “And I won’t spill anymore.”
Cardinal Santini had warned Nichols that what he had called ‘the agents
of darkness’ (Nichols had mused that they always seemed to have such
colourful titles, these bad guys) would stop at nothing to prevent Macready’s
defection. Not that Santini could offer him any means of defence against
them if they did come. Just hope we get to you before they do, was all he
would say. And trust Macready. Trust a Demon? Thanks for nothing.
“So what are those things for?” Nichols gestured to the pile of paper.
“There are those out there who will do anything to stop me doing this.”
He picked up one of the pieces of paper, the crude drawing on it put Nichols
in mind of a malformed dog. “These will help hide my presence, for a while at
least. That’s the theory anyway.”
“You don’t sound too confident.” Nichols had to admit he was hoping
for something a little more solid, a machine gun would have been nice.
The old man shrugged. “I’m not. But this is all I’ve got, I’ve lost so much
power, since breaking away,” he frowned lost in thought again, then came
back with a shrug a moment later. “We’ll see I guess. I just hope your lot get
here before I’m detected. The sooner I’m in the Vatican, the sooner I’m safe.”
He stopped and thought about this. “Christ, safe,” he added with a shake of
the head. He selected two of the papers and held them out to Nichols. “Take
these, pin them to the church doors out the front, I’ll place the rest.”
Nichols looked at the papers but didn’t move.
“You don’t believe in any of this, do you?” Macready asked still holding
out the charms.
“What, that you’re a Demon? A collector of souls? Gee, let me think.”
Nichols was unable to mask his sarcastic tone.
“I thought you Catholics were all about the blind faith?” Macready asked
with a lop-sided grin.
54
“Everything has its limits.” Nichols said but took the two pieces of paper
all the same. He studied the designs, one was the deformed dog thing the
other looked like a crudely drawn pad lock.
“That’ll stop anything, shall we say unnatural, getting in and soiling this
precious church of yours.” Macready offered. “But I tell you what, if anything
does get in, you turn the other cheek, see where that gets you.”
“Here’s what you do, put those two on the churches door like I said.” He
then selected four more which Nichols took obediently. “These others go on
each of the walls out there, doesn’t matter which one on which wall. They will
stop anything coming through the windows.” He smiled. “Collectors just love
fucking up stained glass windows. I should know, I’ve razed a few churches in
my time.” He looked at Nichols as if expecting a response to this, but the
priest wouldn’t give him the satisfaction, he just looked back with a bored
expression on his face.
“What about this Mynor’s Poem thing, the Cardinal told me about?”
Nichols asked and noted with no little glee that at mention of the words
‘Mynor’s poem’ the smile fell right off Macready’s grubby face.
“Fuck no,” Macready said sharply and physically shuddered. “The less
you know about that thing the better.” He fumbled with the other papers but
Nichols could see he had left one face down on the table. “I’ll place these,
around here,” Macready nodded around the room.”
“What about that one?” Nichols gestured to the face down paper he had
left on the table. Macready took the spoon out of the empty cereal bowl and
used it to slide the piece of paper across the table to Nichols who reached out
a hand but hesitated in picking it up.
“It’s okay, you can touch it.” Macready pushed it a little closer with the
spoon.
“You sure?” Nichols asked more than a little suspicious.
“That’s your last line of defence, Father,” Macready tapped the paper with
the spoon. “If it touches anything tainted, for want of a better word,
something like me, another collector, or something we have created. Attack
Demon,” (Attack Demon, the words rolled off his tongue so effortlessly) “that
kind of thing. It will burn them up like fucking napalm, and believe me I
know, I’ve been on the wrong end of one of those bastards.” He shuddered
55
again but this time theatrically. “Burns for hours, if it’s a collector. It should
kill a Demon out right, but that depends who’s created it.”
Nichols gingerly picked up the piece of paper and turned it over to reveal
the picture of a flaming eye. He slipped it into his pocket. “And are we
expecting to see any of these ‘attack Demons’ running around my church?”
Nichols didn’t believe a word of any of this, but still felt strangely comforted
by the charm, he patted his pocket, which won a grin from Macready.
“To be honest, the only drawback to one of those, is the fact that if you
get close enough to use it, you’re already as good as dead.” He paused
watching Nichols. “Whether you believe in any of this shit or not.” Macready
got to his feet and arched his back which cracked alarmingly. “Ooph,” he
winced. “Better get to it Father,” he picked up his mug of tea and held it up in
a toast. “Here’s to a quiet night, and your continued ignorance to the real
world.”
“I’ll drink to that,” Nichols said turning towards the door.
“But you’ll place the papers.?” Macready asked behind him.
“I’m quite happy to humour you,” Nichols turned to look at him. “If it’ll
make you feel better.”
“It will, and admit it, it can’t hurt,” he raised his eyebrows then added,
“and it’ll make you feel better too.”
Never, thought Nichols and left the unlikely Demon without replying.


NINE
If Father Nichols had known then that that would be the last time he
would ever speak to Macready he would have thought of some witty parting
shot, or at the very least asked him why, of all the churches in this city he had
chosen to wander into his and as a result right royally mess his life up forever.
As he walked down the long stone corridor which led from his living
quarters to the church itself, Nichols turned the paper charms over in his
hands. He hadn’t noticed before but whatever enchantment Macready had
56
placed on it had made the texture of the paper somehow denser, it felt
almost like leather now and he wasn’t sure if it was just the meagre light in
here but the blood symbols on them looked quite black against the white.
He wanted to put this all down to cheap parlour tricks, but the more he
tried to rationalize the night’s events as they were unfolding; Macready’s
arrive at his vestry door ranting about sanctuary, and of course not forgetting
the bordering on comical Vatican phone call and Macready’s sleight of hand
show in the kitchen. The more he found it hard to do so.
Sure he could tell himself this was all nonsense, to just play along until
the cavalry arrived and whisked Macready, Demon or not, off out of his live
forever. But there was something lurking at the back of his mind telling him
that no matter how outlandish all this was, it somehow rung true.
Maybe I am losing his marbles after all, Nichols thought to himself as he
reached the heavy oak door which lead through to the back of the church.
He turned the iron door handle and stepped through into the church,
although it was mid-September, the church felt much colder than normal,
Nichols reached to turn on the overhead lights but decided against it, he liked
the way the church looked at night, and there was more than enough light
coming through the stained glass windows from the street outside to see
what he was doing.
He made his way through the back pews and over to the right hand side
wall, he selected one of the papers and was about to pin it to the stone when
he realized he didn’t have any means of doing so. “Damn it!” he whispered
and was surprised to see his breath in the air. Maybe it was colder tonight
than he had thought. The paper bristled in his hand for a moment as if it
were alive which was more than a little unnerving. “Oookay,” Nichols held out
the paper and touched it against the wall, the instant it touched the stone it
seemed to spark as if electrified, Nichols cursed and pulled his hand away and
was only half surprised to see that it stuck there all by itself. He rubbed his
hand, it hadn’t hurt but there was no denying that he had felt a surge of
power run up his arm which made the hairs on it stand up on end. The air
around him felt almost oppressive like a thunderstorm was brewing and he
caught the slight smell of static.
“Just ‘till morning,” Nichols told himself out loud, he screwed his eyes
tight shut, “C’mon!” he scolded and opened his eyes again. He looked
57
around the church, was it him or was it darker than when he had first walked
in? Normally when your eyes become accustomed to the gloom you can see
better, but in the few short seconds his eyes had been closed the reverse had
happened.
No! Nichols dismissed the notion and let out a short sharp cleansing
breath which once again misted in the air in front of him. But he still couldn’t
dismiss the growing fear that was welling up in the pit of his stomach, the
church just looked, wrong somehow, the shadows misplaced the air
oppressive and it was damn near freezing now far too cold to be natural for
this time of year.
The priest uttered a short prayer to himself and did his best to push
thoughts of magic out of his head. He moved away from the charm and put
his mind to placing the rest of the charms so he could get out of here and
back to the relative comfort of his living quarters. As with the first each of the
others stuck to the walls as if magnetized to something deep within the stone
and gave off a spark of power and by the time Nichols had placed the last of
the charms on the double doors at the front of the church the air around him
was fair crackling with power and he didn’t like the way it felt.
He stepped away from the doors and backed into the church. As he had
been placing the charms the fear in his belly had mixed with that of shame,
this was supposed to be a place of God and he was defiling it with this unholy
dark magic. He took a step back towards the charms on the door suddenly
wanting to tear them down but managed to catch himself before he did.
Like it or not he needed them, just for a few more hours and then he
would take great pleasure in ripping them to pieces and burning them. But
still he couldn’t shake the feeling that if this was all some grand test of his
faith in God then he would have surely failed it. Turning so quickly as he had
to this... This... witchcraft? The word stung his conscience, because behind all
the mumbo jumbo and sleight of hand that’s all this really was, the Devils
work, not only had he himself let that Demon into his church but had actively
taken part in this abomination.
Nichols had never felt so ashamed in all his life, he knew this was so
wrong, felt it in every fibre of his being, but worst of all, he couldn’t bring
himself to stop any of it, and even worse still, he couldn’t deny that now that
the charms were up and he could feel their power in the air around him, he
58
felt physically safer now that they were up and keeping whatever may come
knocking at the door at bay. He trusted in their magic and it made him sick
to his stomach.
He rummaged in his pockets and pulled out a crumpled pack of
cigarettes and his trusty old Zippo lighter, thinking that maybe a hit of
nicotine would calm his frayed nerves a little, he pulled out a cigarette using
his teeth and lit it, he took a deep pull letting the smoke fill his lings. Over
the past few months Nichols had gradually been cutting down on the amount
he had been smoking and was down to just two or three a day. (Four on
Sundays if performance anxiety got the better of him.) So the nicotine made
him pleasantly light headed and he tilted back his head and blew the smoke
up into the air watching it drift upwards caught in the street light streaming
through a nearby stained glass window.
“Better,” he said and took another drag before putting the packet back
into his pocket along with the Zippo. He glanced around the church at each
of the paper charms in turn and shook his head. A couple of hundred years
ago they would have burnt you at the stake for less than this.
He chuckled at the thought and feeling a little better thanks to the
nicotine coursing through his weary system started to make his way down the
aisle and over to the back of the church. Nichols looked up at the life size
statue of the Virgin Mary which stood on a plinth close to the back door near
the confessionals and as he past it he instinctively tapped one of its stone feet
for luck and crossed himself.
The sudden grating sound of wood scraping on stone behind him made
Nichols start and he spun around and looked off down the church and over to
the front doors half expecting them to be wide open. They were closed and
the charms that secured them were still in place, but as he looked around the
shadows cast on the walls from the meagre light coming through the
windows seemed to have shifted yet again, dark foreboding pools of darkness
lay in defiance to the light that should have drown them out.
Nichols let out the breath he had been holding as he listened, but apart
from his own breathing and his heart pounding in his ears the place was pin
drop quiet. He narrowed his eyes and peered through the gloom, something
was wrong with this picture, not just the ever shifting shadows that were
making a nonsense of the light but something else was out of kilter. It took
59
him a moment to make sense of what was wrong but then he saw it. The
front pew on the left hand side of the aisle and closest to the double doors
had shifted a good few feet and was now at an odd angle compared to the
uniformed neatness of the others.
Something moved in the shadows behind the pew. “Jesus Mary and
Joseph,” even though the oath was little more than a whisper, the words
echoed off the walls around Nichols as if he had shouted them. The pew
shifted again as whatever was behind it brushed against it. Nichols jumped
more at the harsh screeching sound than the movement itself.
Although it was hidden from view, he knew instinctively that whatever it
was had to be incredibly strong, that pew was at least fifteen feet long and
made of solid wood, but it had just moved like it was balsawood.
He tried to take a step back but Nichols was getting conflicting messages
from his fear clouded brain which rooted his feet to the spot when they
should have been be sprinting to the back door and safety. But his brain was
too busy to give the simple instruction of flight. The thing in the shadows
quite simply shouldn’t be there, he had placed the charms just as Macready
had instructed, but there it was all the same, lurking behind the displaced
pew.
The thought flashed into his head that maybe the whole placing of the
charms thing had been some sick joke on Macready’s part, that those simple
scraps of paper were useless and the old Demon had got him to put than up
just to see if he would place his faith in there supposed power ahead of his
own faith in God. Just for his own amusement at how quickly Nichols would
abandon his faith in favour of Macready’s dark magic. And he had, there was
no denying that. “I’ve razed a few churches in my time,” Macready had said.
Was this going to be another? After humiliating Nichols was Macready going
to destroy this place as a grand finale?
The shadow behind the pew shifted again, defying the light coming
through the nearby window that should have drowned it out. The sudden
movement focused Nichols’ mind again back to the problem at hand, like it or
not, charms or no charms something was in his church.
And then it started. A low guttural growl like an idling power tool drifted
down the church to him. Pitch perfect to induce terror into any unfortunate
close enough to hear it. Although he was some forty feet from its maker
60
Nichols could physically feel the growl vibrate through the soles of his feet.
Run! Some small part of his brain not frozen in fright was screaming, but he
couldn’t move even when the shadow moved out from behind the pew and
into the aisle.
The beast, which he had at first thought was hiding in the shadow was in
fact the shadow itself. It had the vague undulating shape of a four legged
creature, crouching low with its belly nearly dragging on the stone floor.
Although the body seemed to lack any solidity, indeed it looked to Nichols to
be nothing more than a seething mass of darkness, there was no doubt it still
had a formidable weight to it.
As it moved, dark matter almost like tar dripped from its body but the
instant it fell away from the whole of the creature it turned to smoke and
drifted away. Nichols shifted his feet almost unconsciously and the creature
paused for a moment as if studying him, ready to pounce at a split seconds
notice if he moved again. Its eyes, blood red and cat like flashed in the
depths of the dark matter that must have been its head, then faded an instant
later when it was content that its prey was frozen to the spot. The beast
moved off again with the slow methodical gait of a predator, it was almost
purring now as it approached the paralyzed priest.
The nightmare was close enough now that Nichols could see through the
dripping almost viscose darkness and to the skeletal frame beneath. Its skull
was almost human in appearance if warped somewhat like wax kept out in the
sun too long, and it was nearly twice the normal size. There was no room that
Nichols could see for a nose on its misshapen face which was dominated by
two huge hollow eye sockets, with those piercing red eyes set deep inside,
and the remainder was taken up by its mouth which was a mass of jagged
razor sharp teeth that would put a great white to shame. The head was
connected to its body by a long crooked vertebrae snaking down into the
folds of murk which thankfully was too dense for Nichols to make out
anything but the faintest outline the spindly body that lay beneath. It took
one more step towards him then stopped.
The beast stopped purring as it crouched down again poised to strike,
leaving only the sound of Nichol’s short sharp intakes of breath. He tried with
all his will to tear his horrified gaze away from those two eyes, burning like
faint embers from deep within the shroud of darkness as it studied him. Both
instinctively knew what was next, that the end was close for one of them, that
61
the beast would strike at any moment to easily snuff out the human’s life and
that it would take little longer than the space between two of Nichols’ rapid
heartbeats to finish the task it so wanted to carry out.
But still Nichols couldn’t move, even though the fear that was strangling
his brain he knew the back door with its promise of relative safety was only a
few steps away but it may as well have been miles for all the chance he had of
actually covering the ground in time to get through it. The thing would be on
him a split second after he even thought about making the move. That look
in its burning eyes was testament enough to that. ‘Go on holy man they
almost begged, take a step. I dare you.’ No it was useless.
“Ssssshhhhittt,” The curse escaped his lips as little more than a hiss.
Nichols rarely swore, and never in a house of God. But, he thought, if you
can’t swear when faced with an abomination like this. When in God’s name
could you? Nichols was in no doubt with death so close, God and the statue
of the Virgin Mary over his left shoulder would understand. He shook his
head, fear was making him think of the most bizarre of things. He closed his
eyes and screwed them tight shut and looked deep within himself in a vain
attempt to find some sliver of the courage that had so readily deserted him,
but came back with nothing but despair and he let out a sob of anguish. He
heard the beast shift slightly at this, clearly his pain was music to its ears, but
he refused to look at it instead kept his eyes tight shut.
The end was near which prompted Nichols to say a final prayer before it
came. Mostly he prayed for forgiveness, he wished he could have been
stronger, not in the face of this unholy death, who wouldn’t sob at the sight
before him, but in so readily turning to Macready’s charms for help above his
own faith in God, he had desecrated the church, his church and it had gained
him nothing but shame.
And finally he prayed that death would come quickly. Nichols was
surprised at how much the simple prayer comforted him, he felt the fear and
shame drain away replaced by an almost overwhelming sense of serenity.
“Amen,” he said softly and felt tears stream down his face. He opened his
eyes more than ready now to face his executioner with a renewed faith.
The beast was gone.
62
TEN
Nichols must have stared blankly at the place the thing had occupied
moments before for a full thirty seconds before his befuddled brain managed
to process the fact that it was now empty. When it did, it hit him like a
physical blow hard across the face followed instantly by one to the stomach
which made his legs buckle from underneath him and he fell forwards onto
his hands and knees. He tried to catch his breath but when he sucked in air
his stomach flipped and he had to clasp a hand over his mouth to stop
himself from throwing up all over the church floor.
His body convulsed and he retched violently over and over. "Oh, God,"
he winched and spat out a mouthful of foul tasting bile. Nichols held his
breath and tried to regulate his breathing, controlling the urge to throw up
until he was sure the worst of the sensation had past, then he collapsed onto
his backside.
His mind was reeling, but not so much that he didn't know that things
were far from over. Nightmares don't always disappear the moment you
wake up, life, especially now, just wasn't that simple anymore.
"C'mon," he chided as his until now untapped desire for self-preservation
kicked in with a vengeance and with great effort he pulled himself up using
one of the nearby pews until he got unsteadily to his feet. He frantically
scanned his gloomy surroundings looking for any sign of that putrid darkness
dripping monster. Although the thing was almost twice his size, there were
still plenty of dark nooks and crannies for it to hide and he knew it could be
watching him even now ready to pounce just when he might dare to believe
he could survive.
But if it was still lurking somewhere quietly watching him, waiting. Why?
Why hadn't it ripped him to shreds when it had the chance? Had what he
thought was his dying prayer worked? Had the thing sensed his renewed
faith and fled? So many questions, so few answers. Another; Was it still here
and simply toying with him like a cat with a mouse whose hole is in sight?
Cruelly enjoying the moment giving its victim cause for false hope of survival?
Nichols looked around, the charms were still where he had placed them
and he could still feel their power in the air. Perhaps the beast had sensed
63
them too. They were meant to keep the enemy out, but what if their
presences had given the creature cause to pause. Still no answers, just a
legion of questions to ponder as he stood there sweating in the dark.
Whatever the reason the thing was gone, for now. And that was good
enough to be going on with. He was still breathing and his limbs were still all
where they should be so he wasn't complaining. Nichols so wanted to believe
it had been his faith that had driven the Demon away, but he couldn't deny
what little sense of reality he had gnawing away at the back of his head which
told him otherwise. Could it have been the charms? Or Macready himself?
Nichols spun around at the thought of the old man coming to his rescue
and half expected him to be standing in the doorway grinning. But the door
leading to his living quarters was still shut.
"Macready?" His voice was hoarse from the bile. He cleared his throat
and without thinking spat on the floor. "Macready?" He shouted it this time
and his voice bounced of the stone walls around him. He waited for a
response from behind the door but none came. Either he hadn't heard or,
and the thought made him shiver, the beast had somehow gotten past
Nichols and claimed his true victim, after all there was no charm on that door
to stop it. And what if there had been another hiding in the vestry all this
time? Perhaps the old man was already dead and the one that had been
stalking Nichols in here had gone, content in the knowledge it's brother had
fulfilled their task and was at this moment feasting on Macready's withered
soul.
"Macready?" He said but this time almost in a whisper, fearful of being
heard. He cursed his cowardice, he had no love for the old man but he had to
be sure, one way or the other. Nichols took a tentative step towards the door
when a noise close by, stone grating stone, made him spin on his heel and he
faced the church once more, he hunched down slightly waiting for an attack,
but nothing came. He cocked his ear and listened but couldn't hear anything
but his own hesitant breathing and the blood rushing through his ears.
Nothing moved in the church be it shadow or solid and if it hadn't been
for the fact that the pew at the front of the church was still askew from the
others where the thing had knocked it, Nichols could have almost allowed
himself to believe that the last few minutes where nothing but a surreal
64
interlude to his normal banal existence, nothing more than a vivid
hallucination brought on by talk of Demons and magic charms.
He waited, breathing as softly as he could and looked from one dark
corner to the next but still nothing moved, natural or otherwise. He took a
moment to regulate his breathing, whatever had just happened one thing was
clear, he had to get back to Macready whether the old man was alive or dead.
Nichols took a tentative step backwards and without chancing to look
around reached out his left hand to touch the statue of the Virgin Mary's foot
which was just behind him. For luck and to give thanks that he was still
somehow drawing breath. His hand touched down where her stone feet had
stood for a good two hundred years but there was nothing there. He slowly
craned is neck around to see the plinth she should have been perched on was
empty. The priest did an almost comical double take but the statue was
gone.
"What the hell?" He inquired to the empty plinth as if it could answer.
"God," his head was spinning again and he almost keeled over, he had
touched her foot earlier for luck as he always did, the statue had definitely
been there then, he had performed that little ritual countless times before,
he'd carried it with him from his previous placement as a curate to Father
Jacobs at St. Josephs in Cardiff. The old priest had done it for forty years or
more and he had in turn picked it up from the priest he had assisted when
younger. Nichols had picked up the habit almost without knowing it and
continued it on here.
He looked around for any sign of the statue, what the hell had happened
to it? Had it just got up and walked off at the first sign of the Demonic
trespasser? "What in God's name is going on here?" Nichols shouted the
question in frustration and it echoed off the stone walls around him. He
hadn't expected a reply, so damn near fainted dead away when it came from
the shadows close by.
"It's all just a kind of game really." It was a soft woman's voice with a
strong Eastern European accent. Nichols turned to the speaker who he could
now see in the shadows behind one of the confessionals. There was
something not quite right about her appearance which became all too
apparent when it moved.
65
"Mother of God," it was both an oath and God help him a statement of
fact. Nichols’ legs almost gave way again at the sheer shock of it, he half
staggered half fell against the empty plinth, he had to grasp hold of it with
both arms to stop himself from collapsing as the statue of the Virgin Mary
stepped unsteadily out of the shadows and into the multi-coloured half-light
coming from one of the nearby stained glass windows.
"You... You're..." Nichols stammered, his tongue suddenly two sizes too
big for is mouth. The statue took a faltering step closer; it was bathed in a
psycho surreal mixer of coloured lights from the window, patches of blue and
red moved across its stone features. "This can't be," Nichols managed to get
out as tears sprung to his eyes again. Tears of joy or disbelief he didn't know,
but they came all the same.
"I answered your prayer," the statue said softly, its mouth though stone
moved ever so slightly as it spoke, again with that heavy accent, the only flaw
in what surely was a facade. Wasn't it? The Virgin seemed to sense this and
added. "Is that so hard to believe?" No, was the simple answer tonight of all
nights he so wanted to believe what he was seeing.
The statue was a perfect rendition, identical in every detail (apart from
the walking and talking) from the one he had passed every day and tapped its
toe for good luck ever since his arrival. Nichols chanced a look around, the
beast had disappeared that much was certain and hadn't he wanted answers
as to why? And here it was right in front of him. 'Is that so hard to believe?’
She had asked, so, was it? Was it so hard to believe that she had answered
his prayer and delivered him from evil?
"That, that thing..." He asked turning back to her again and gestured to
the now empty church.
"You prayed Father, and I answered," she said almost matter of fact as if
prayers like this were answered every day. "I chased that thing away, out of
my church. Such an abomination in a house of God." The statue frowned
slightly causing flakes of plaster to fall from its brow. "It's a miracle," it added
in way of explanation.
'I'll say,' Nichols almost said out loud. He believed in the power for
prayer, it was the very cornerstone of his own faith. But even in a night of
magic such as this he couldn't believe his prayer alone, no matter how
66
genuine, could have brought the Mother of God herself down to answer
them.
She seemed to sense this. "For a man of faith you seem to have so little,"
there was an edge of accusation in her voice that stung Nichols.
"It's just," he was fumbling for the right words again, no matter how he
spun it to himself he had dismissed this visitation as an illusion all too quickly.
"I, It's hard to take in..." He cursed his meagre vocabulary and knew he must
have sounded like a babbling fool, but to be fair who wouldn't in the face of
the things he had seen on a night that started out with the visit of a soul
collector and had gone rapidly downhill from then on.
"Lack of faith can be a dangerous thing," she said and raised a stone arm
to point down to the far end of the aisle. Nichols followed the gesture but
heard the beast before he saw it skulking around in the shadows close to
where he had first seen it. The meaning was clear, the statue, or the thing
inside was keeping the creature at bay. So was the fact that he knew her
power wasn't drawn from his faith in God but from something much darker,
the polar opposite in fact.
"That's quite a trick," Nichols said nodding at the statue trying to keep
his voice as nonchalant as he could. "But the voice needs some work." He
added coldly.
The statue shrugged and a rain of rubble peppered the floor. Nichols
could see thought the ever growing cracks that were appearing in the illusion
and to the person underneath wearing this sacrilegious disguise. "There was
a time," she said with a weary voice. "When my appearance would have sent
you into delirious rapture. The Mother of God herself stepping down off her
perch to chase the nightmare away."
"This is an old routine I take it?" Nichols asked.
"Perhaps a little too old," she said. "But oh, how it used to work wonders,
but that was a long time ago I'm afraid, that was in a time of faith which
seems to have passed me by somehow." Her voice trailed off and was tinged
with genuine despondence.
"I have faith," Nichols said to the strange creation. "Just not in you." He
heard the softest of sighs coming from within the stone face. The statue took
several tentative steps and with great effort sat down in one of the nearby
67
pews. Up at the far end of the aisle Nichols could see the beast out of the
corner of his eye, pacing back and forth impatiently by the front doors as if
waiting for orders.
"It seems I have lost my touch," the statue said after contemplating its
stone feet for a few moments. And the thing looked strangely lost to Nichols.
He moved towards where it was sitting, seeing this the beast began to bound
down the aisle like a shadow shrouded freight train, it was surprisingly agile
for all its bulk. Nichols cried out and braced for the impact but the beast
skidded to a clumsy halt barely ten feet from him and looked disapprovingly
to its left panting. Nichols turn to see the Virgin had her hand out stopping
the beast from attacking.
He let out a long breath. "You're here for Macready," he said, his voice
barely audible over the beast’s breathing. He glanced nervously at the
seething monstrosity but it was reluctantly holding its ground. The Virgin
nodded in way of response. Nichols ever so slowly edged his way over to
where she was sitting, never daring to take his eyes of the beast.
Much to his surprise the statue gently patted the pew next to her for
Nichols to take a seat. The priest physically shrugged, then after a moment of
deliberation, Nichols figured he had nothing to lose, the Devil and its dog
were here in his church tonight despite Macready's best efforts and there
wasn't a damn thing a mere mortal like himself could do about it, so he sat
stiffly down next to her, and there they both sat in silence, man of God and
the Virgin Mary (of sorts).
"Got a cigarette?" The fake Mother said after half a minute, absently
picking bits of plaster off her arm. Why not? Nichols thought. The statue
was well over a hundred years old, that's a hell of a long time to go without a
smoke. He smiled at the absurdity of the situation and pulled the crumpled
packet of cigarettes out of his pocket, he offered it to the Virgin, she slid one
out and put it to her faded stone lips.
"Light?" She asked.
"Sure," Nichols brought out his light and touched the flame to the death
stick.
The Virgin took a long pull on it and held the smoke in her lungs for a
moment before tilting her head upwards and blowing it up into the air.
68
Nichols watched it swirling in the air, he felt strangely serene in her company.
"Arrh," she sighed. "That's better." She flexed her fingers which were already
more flesh now than stone. "Didn't take you long to figure it out. Didn't you
even want it all to be real?" The fraud asked.
"God, yes," Nichols replied with simple honestly, there was something
about this creature that made the thought of lying to her seem as much like
sacrilege as the form she had taken. "What man of God wouldn't want to be
saved by the Virgin Mother herself?"
He thought she smiled at this as the plaster on her face cracked some
more but in truth she may just have been stiffing a yawn for all he could tell.
She offered him the cigarette but he shook his head, this scene was surreal
enough as it was without sharing a smoke with the counterfeit deity. "But
even though I've clearly gone mad," he continued. "I just couldn't quite
swallow the whole divine intervention thing I'm afraid."
This time she did smile, causing little flakes of painted stone to fall from
her face. Even in the gloom Nichols could see fleeting glimpses of the flesh
beneath and he was almost surprised to see it was human, and flawless.
"You're a strange one, Father," Nichols drunk in the softness of her voice,
but try as he might he couldn't quite place the accent, he had thought it was
eastern European but now wasn't so sure, it seemed to fluctuate from
sentence to sentence with the hint of half a dozen accents. All part of the
illusion? Or the only natural thing about her? "I'm beginning to see why Mac’
chose you. He was always drawn to characters."
"I had wondered why I was the lucky one."
"You've a spark of mischief in you, Father. It's very apparent too," she
thought for a second how to articulate, then added; “You saw right thought
my little game almost straight away. Sure perhaps I am slipping. I've been
doing this for a long, long time." She drew out the second long; Loooooong,
for effect. "In the old days, when I played this card, you could always count of
much tears and wringing of hands, not to mention the good old fashioned
praising of God."
She gave a slight shake of the head which showered Nichols trouser legs
with a fine covering of dust, he brought his hand up to brush it was but for
some reason couldn't bring himself to do it. He frowned, but the Virgin didn't
69
seem to notice, she was looking off into the gloom. "I remember this one
priest," she laughed out loud at the memory and it sounded like music to
Nichols' ears. "Just up and died on the spot. Mind you, he must have been a
hundred," she added casually as if addressing an old friend.
"I imagine you get that a lot," Nichols asked, more to hear her sweet
voice again than anything.
She shrugged and flicked what was left of the cigarette off into the
darkness. As he watched her awkward movements, Nichols wondered just
how long the statue, or the thing inside, had been watching him.
“The charms, they were useless then?” He asked suddenly remembering
the scrapes of paper he had put around the place.
“No, not at all,” she replied. “Mac' is very weak these days, especially
after what he's done to try and break away from us, but the charms are solid
enough. They would have been more than strong enough to keep me out.
But of course, charms for keeping something out, aren't much good if the
enemy is already inside.” She made a fist and watched as most of the stone
around her hand crumpled to dust. She flexed her fingers which Nichols
could see were perfectly manicured. “I slipped in a little after Macready got
here. I've been close to catching up with him for days now. We had a feeling
he was going to do something a little...” She paused, trying to find the right
word. “Rash.” She nodded, that seemed to fit quite nicely.
Then she turned to look at him directly for the first time and Nichols
almost gasped out loud seeing her eyes, all too real, they were a deep
flawless blue encased in the rapidly disintegrating mask of stone. Now he
knew he must be going mad as he slowly felt himself falling deeply,
hopelessly in love with this impossible creation sitting next to him. His breath
caught in his throat and his heart began hammering in his chest like a love
struck school boy and for the briefest of moments Nichols thought he was
going to keel over on the spot just like that old priest this dark Goddess had
spoken of.
All this just from a glimpse of her eyes. He tried to speak, but out of
nowhere fear suddenly robbed him of his voice. Not fear of death, no if her
gaze was the last thing he would see in this life then he would gladly welcome
death now, as what else could he possibly hope to see in a thousand lifetimes
to match that sheer beauty behind those clear perfect pools of blue? No not
70
fear of death, he feared that his fumbling words would break the spell and
she might look away. And in that moment, lost in her eyes, Father Peter
Nichols could not think of anything worse.
He thought he heard something shift shifting behind him, that creature
of shadow and hate no doubt, growing restless and eager to get its filth
coated teeth into him.
He was wrong.
“Sofia?” It was Macready, his voice bathed in desolation. And with it she
looked away to over Nichols shoulder breaking the exquisite eye contact and
his heart in an instant.
Nichols physically gasped out loud it felt like she had slapped him hard
across the face. Sofia, her name was Sofia. In the many years since he had
heard this Nichols' heart always soured, then inevitable sank whenever he
heard that name, in whatever context, it didn’t matter. Sofia, the love of his
life was called Sofia. Tears filled the priest’s eyes as he looked back over his
shoulder following her lost gaze to see Macready standing in the shadows
with his back to the open doorway leading to the vestry, he looked to Nichols
like a rabbit caught in a juggernaut’s headlights.
“Hey Mac,” she said with a lightness and familiarity that made Nichols
instantly hate the raggedy old man. “Surprise.”
“Fuck,” Macready cursed through gritted teeth. He looked from her to
the creature, who scurried forwards a few steps seeing its prey. Again, as she
had done for Nichols, the Women, Sofia, held out her hand and stopped the
beast in its tracks. Clearly vexed, the creature let out a deafening howl and
struck the stone plinth the Virgin should still have been perched upon, hard
with its left claw. The plinth exploded sending a shower of rubble and dust all
over Nichols, a sharp piece the size of his fist struck him on the side of the
head simultaneously drawing blood and snapping him out of his love Lorne
melancholic coma.
Without thinking, Nichols jumped to his feet, a shout of protest ready to
escape his lips, but no sooner had he drawn breath to unleash it when the
creature spun towards him and instinctively took a swipe at the priest
catching him a glancing blow across the chest. Although it was little more
than a half-hearted love tap, Nichols chest exploded in a shower of blood.
71
The world was turned upside down and a split second later Nichols was
crashing into one of the nearby confessionals which collapsed around him.
Shock kept the worsted of the pain away for a few frantic seconds as he
laid there amongst the shattered wood, then it came flooding back. Nichols
tried almost in vain to catch his breath. Most of which seemed to be escaping
through the ragged hole in his chest. He managed a couple of shallow
breaths before his mouth filled up with blood which was bubbling up through
his throat. He puked it up but more was coming, he just about managed to
make sense of his surroundings but almost passed straight out as he looked
down at his mangled chest, he quickly looked away again seeing what could
only be the white of his shattered exposed ribs sticking up at odd angles
though the meat.
“Oh... Oh, God,” he spat out another mouthful of blood his head
swimming. Then the lights and with them he assumed his life went out.
Nichols was pulled back from oblivion by the voice of an angel whose
sweet tones drifted through the darkness like flecks of light showing him the
way back from the brink of death, as if she had answered his prayers all over
again. But these prayers, although Nichols would never admit to anyone,
least of all his conscious self, had been made to her directly, forsaking all
other deities. He would have clawed his way back from the abyss just to hear
her sweet voice again and hope against hope perhaps feel her gaze on him
once more. Sofia.
When he came to, Nichols was laid amongst the shattered remains of the
confessional, his clothes felt hot and sticky, soaked through with his own
blood. He instinctively brought his hand up to his ruined chest but pulled it
away feeling something jagged through the exposed flesh, the beast’s little
love tap had left him with four deep claw marks which looked for all the world
like he'd been attacked by Freddy Kruger. Nichols had been to see A
nightmare on Elm street the previous week at the local cinema which had
drawn many an incredulous look from the other audience members,
apparently they didn't get many priests going to horror movies around here.
'Research,' Nichols had told them with half a smile.
Now he was slap bang in the middle of his very own horror movie, but
one that hadn't played out its final scene with him just yet it seemed. He
could hear Sofia's sweet voice again, pulling him further back into
72
consciousness, but it was being ruined by Macready's drawl, they were talking
somewhere close. Nichols gritted his teeth and with great effort raised his
head as best he could to see where the conversation was coming from. The
first thing he saw in the gloom was the beast prowling between the pews still
eager to dispatch Macready at its mistress' bidding.
The old demon Macready was standing in the aisle with his head bowed
opposite Sofia, who Nichols could now see had dis-guarded the last of her
disguise. She was clothed in a simple long blue summer dress which was far
too flimsy for this time of year but the cold didn't seem to bother her. Even in
the half-light her skin was so pale that for a moment Nichols thought she was
still wearing the stone facade from the statue, her long hair which fell in loose
curls past her shoulders was a deep unnatural red which made her skin seem
all the paler still in comparison.
The priest raised himself up further on his elbows and winced at the fresh
stabbing pain in his chest. He gritted his teeth again but couldn't altogether
stifle the cry of pain that escaped his throat and echoed throughout the
church. They must have heard, but none of the three trespassers even glanced
his way. He was no threat or help to anyone.
Sofia was whispering something to Macready but Nichols couldn't make
out anything but her tone which was almost loving. Macready shook his head
and she gently stroked his matted hair, for an assassin she had a strangely
benign look on her beautiful ashen face. She caressed his grubby cheek with
the back of her hand and raised his bearded chin with the other so that he
had to look up at her. She frowned and gave the slightest shake of her head
which sent a ripple through her exquisite blood red hair.
“Mac,” she said it so softly Nichols only just caught the word. “Look at
you. You used to be so... Handsome,” Nichols felt a wave of jealously wash
over him and was a little too pleased to see Macready pull away from her
touch slightly and he could see the glint of tears in the old man’s eyes.
“I didn't think it would be you,” Macready said, his voice was a hoarse
whisper, full of such emotion Nichols could barely believe the old tramp was
capable of. “Jacob, maybe Randall, but not you.” Tears were streaming down
his face now.
She smiled, and even in his weakened state, Nichols felt butterflies in his
stomach. “You are in so much trouble, Mac. You know that, don't you?” She
73
spoke to him like he was an errant child, almost lovingly and without the
merest trace of malice in her sweet voice. Nichols didn't know if it was his
weakened state, but he found himself envying the old tramp. It was clear the
two had a history between them just as it was clear she loved him even if she
came here as his executioner. Nichols would have gladly switched places with
him at that moment even if it meant his certain death. That would have been
a small price to pay if only she would look upon him the same way.
Macready exhaled slowly and looked up at her again and she actually
winced at the pain in his eyes. Such a strange execution scene. “Aren't you
sick of it all?” He asked her obviously fighting hard to keep his composure.
Although even from where Nichols was viewing this endgame it was clear it
wasn't fear just pure emotion, he seemed almost glad things were finally
coming to a head and he could speak what was in his heart to one of his own
kind. This wasn't a bargaining, it was a confession. “Don't you just want it all
to end?” He struggled on. “Christ Sofia, you've been at this a hell of a lot
longer than even me!”
She took his face in her hands with a heart breaking tenderness, and
gently kissed him on the forehead. “You were the best of us, Mac,” she said
after looking at him for what seemed like an age. “We all get tired, of course
we do. But you've really crossed the line this time old friend. Killing your
observer Demon?” She grimaced. “God knows we've all wanted to do it at
one time or another, but there's no coming back from that.”
“I don't want to come back,” he said flatly, holding her gaze until it was
she who looked away. He caught her face with his hand and gently forced her
to look him in the eyes again. “I want it over. All of it.”
“Mac!” She hopped from foot to foot like a child, clearly that was
something she didn't want to hear. “It'll never end,” she had an edge in her
voice now and Nichols could see the beast mirroring her growing frustration.
“But running off to those shit merchants at the Vatican?” She made a face
and spat on the floor like she had a bad taste in her mouth, she swung her
arms out in an expansive gesture to take in the church, and presumably
Nichols as well, which hurt a thousand times more than the seeping wound in
his chest.
Sofia took a breath to calm herself. She looked deep into his eyes again
and took a hold of his face in her hands as if scared he might look away.
74
There was such a tenderness between them that Nichols found it hard to
believe they were Demons. 'The enemies of goodness', that was another of
Cardinal Luppi's phrases. It was clear the Cardinal had never seen a scene like
this before, if he had even seen one of their kind ever before, which Nichols
severely doubted now. How could two creatures who were supposed to be
so evil share such compassion for one another? He knew it was a paradox
that would never leave him, even if by some miracle he made it beyond the
next few minutes.
Macready gently took a hold of her wrists and pulled her hand away from
his face. “It's over for me,” he said softly and slipped his grasp down to take a
hold of her hands. “I couldn't kill myself, though God knows I wanted to. And
I couldn’t trust those Vatican fuck ups to ever catch up to me. So I thought
maybe I could do some good.”
Good, the word clearly stung her, she looked at Macready as though he
had just spat straight in her face. “Do some...” she stuttered but the word
finally came, “Good?” She shook her head incredulously. Then with
resignation she said, “Then you really are lost to us old friend.”
She pulled away from Macready but didn't drop her gaze from the old
man’s face. Nichols felt faint and his vision was beginning to fail him at last.
He swooned and slumped onto his back but tried desperately to haul himself
back up again, if only to catch one final glimpse of her face before death
finally took him. The blood was roaring through his ears now and he felt
himself drifting into unconsciousness.
He faintly heard her sweet voice but couldn't make out what she was
saying, then caught Macready say, “Oh, just get on with it.” Followed by the
sound of the beast's claws scampering frantically on the church’s stone floor
towards its target. Macready let out a sharp cry which was instantly cut short
by the sickening sound of flesh and bone being ripped to shreds.
This stirred one final effort from Nichols, he blindly reached out a hand
and grabbed the nearest pew to him and pulled himself up as best he could,
after a moment of searing pain he managed to get himself into a half sitting
half lying position, for a moment he thought he was going to pass out again
but fought the darkness back. “No,” he gasped, “not yet...” He propped
himself against the pew so he wouldn't slip back down again and looked
through a haze of pain to see Sofia standing in the aisle looking down at what
75
must have been the tattered remains of Macready's body laid just out of sight
obscured as it was by several over turned pews. She was crying.
The beast which was someway off panting at the effort of the execution
had already begun to fade as if it were made of smoke and a moment later it
was all but gone. Nichols hand which was propping him up slipped in a pool
of his own blood, he cried out in pain as his vision once more began to fade
as unconsciousness began to creep over him. He though he saw her look
around in alarm, but her face softened a moment later seeing him sprawled
there fading fast like the creature. He fought off the end desperate not to
miss a moment of her presence and watched as she took out a scrap of paper
out of her pocket, one not unlike one of Macready's charms. Then she bent
down out of sight to place it on what Nichols assumed was the remains of
Macready's body.
The instant she did all the charms on the walls and doors sparked and fell
to the floor, their creator was gone now and so was whatever power, useless
as it turned out, they had with him. Nichols felt a burning on his pocket he
cursed his stupidity. The defence charm Macready had given him, which had
been in his pocket the whole time, sparked and died just like the others. Not
that he could have ever used it on her. 'It burns like Napalm,' Macready had
told him. No not on her, even if it had meant his death he would have never
been able to case her so much pain. The charm soon cooled in his pocket as
its unused power faded.
Then the object of what would become a lifelong infatuation for Nichols
turned and strode off down the aisle. Nichols summoned the last reserves of
energy and pulled himself back up just enough to watch her as she walked
out of his life forever. He held his breath both against the pain that was now
overwhelming, and in the vain hope that she might pause or at the very least
turn back to glance in his direction one final time. In the end she did neither
and was gone through the big double oak doors at the front of the church,
which parted without a touch to ease her exit, out into the chilly September
night without even slowing her pace clearly eager to be gone from this place
of God.
Nichols let out a sob of despair and slumped back down once more
where he laid and let the growing darkness that was closing in slowly sweep
over him, not caring if there was any light left in the world and caring even
less if he ever saw it again.
76
ELEVEN
‘What the hell was a double decaf soya latté anyway?’
Apart from the tasteless sugar free blueberry muffin he was currently
trying to force down, Bill Fraker couldn’t think of anything (an alcohol free
world aside) more pointless. Surely you drank coffee for the caffeine hit and
anyway how the hell could something be double decaf? It was either decaf or
normal, wasn’t it?
Fraker glanced around the coffee shop where he and Charlie Walker were
having breakfast, if you could call it that. He had decided to start his new
health regime this morning and that meant coming here instead of the
normal greasy spoon café he usually started the day in. And looking at his
muffin and Charlie’s bagel he was already missing his ‘belly buster’ fried
breakfast.
Personally Fraker blamed Charlie. He was a regular here, so much so that
he didn’t even have to order his double decaf frothy coffee when they had
walked in. The pretty girl behind the counter just smiled and started making
the monstrosity at once, pausing only to simper; ‘Mornin’ Charlie’ and go
bright pink.
Charlie had confided in him that he was thinking about asking her out,
‘just think of the free coffee and cakes!’ Hmm thought Fraker, yeah and all
sugar and caffeine free. Sometimes he despaired at the world.
Anyhow, to redress the balance somewhat and restore some order to the
universe, Fraker had ordered a double shot Americana with milk (full fat of
course). But it had been Charlie’s idea for him to try the sugarless
abomination he was now picking at.
As it was only half seven both men had sat silently like zombies since
they got in, neither man had spoken much since ordering, but now, thankfully
Fraker could feel the caffeine buzz final start to kick in and he felt half human
again. It was now that he was semi-alert that he noticed Charlie seemed to
be, most unusually for him, deep in thought.
77
He was staring intently at his latté while swilling the milky coffee around
the cup, the young man frowned then said; “How is it, the foam keeps going
until the bottom of the cup? Mental.”
“What are you going on about, decaf boy?
Walker pointed to his drink. “Lattés! I wonder what they put in the milk
to stop it from going flat?”
This was classic Charlie Walker mused Fraker, and undoubtedly the result
of no caffeine in the morning. Simple things as they say. “I bet NASA are
kicking themselves they let you slip through the net, eh?” He said taking a sip
of his proper coffee.
But Charlie continued, his enthusiasm undimmed. “I remember going to
Italy when I was a kid, and they invented lattés. When you order one over
there you get the coffee and the frothy milk in two separate jugs, and you
have to mix ‘em together yourself, and it never bloody works right,” he shook
his head at the mystery of it all. “Separate jugs! What’s that all about?”
“Christ, you mean Starbucks lied to us?” Fraker threw in. “You clearly
ordered the wrong drink, you tool.”
Charlie was still lost in a world of frothy coffees. “And,” he said quite
earnestly. “If you’re not careful you get a bloody cold one! One of those
Frappés things, Yuk!” Charlie made a face and sipped his drink. Leaving
Fraker to wonder how the hell the kid got himself dressed in the morning.
Fraker and Charlie had been summoned to go see their boss, Mister Lyne
this morning. Sally his assistant said he had some kind of babysitting job for
them and had intimated that it was top priority and that Lyne had asked for
Fraker personally to take the gig. Fraker tried to push her on the details but
she said even she didn’t have a clue what it was all about. ‘Strictly cloak and
dagger,’ she had said and he could tell from the edge in her voice that she
was more than a little irritated Lyne didn’t trust her enough to let her in on it.
“Babysitting,” Fraker whispered to himself with a slight shake of the head.
It was probably some old lag from Lyne’s past, they seemed to be popping up
more and more these days since the boss had taken over most of the West
Yorkshire side of the business when Timmy Pinkerton ‘died of natural causes’
last year. But if so, why ask for Fraker? Any of the younger men could do it
just as easily.
78
He was musing this when Charlie’s ‘girlfriend’ came sauntering over to
their table under the pretext of wiping it down. “Can I get you gentlemen
anything else?”
Fraker looked up to answer but he could see she was looking at Charlie
who shot her one of his winning smiles. “No thanks, Nicky, we’re fine thanks.”
Charlie said and the woman breezed away again.
“Why don’t you ask ‘Nicky’ how they get the milk to stay frothy?” Fraker
asked and wasn’t the least bit surprised when Walker genuinely seemed to be
considering it. He decided to change the subject before the idiot actually did.
“Are you going to see your Dad today?” Fraker asked, it was a sore subject
but he knew Charlie hadn’t been to see his Father in hospital for a few days,
as when Fraker had gone to visit the old man yesterday Charlie’s Father had
commented on it.
Charlie wrinkled his nose slightly the way he always did at the mention of
his Father lately. “Yeah,” he said without much conviction, “I was gonna nip in
to see him a bit later, if I can get away.”
“Does he still think you’re an estate agent?”
Charlie grimaced. “Oh, don’t. I really should tell him the truth. It used to
be funny, but now? Christ.” The poor kid was looking glum now so Fraker
resisted the urge to tell him, ‘I told you so.’ “I wouldn’t mind,” continued
Charlie. “But he worked for the boss for nigh on thirty years. They started off
nicking the lead off church roofs.”
Fraker was now regretting bringing it up, Charlie had always been a
chirpy little soul, even when he was a teenager collecting bottles at one of the
clubs for pocket money. But since his Father’s illness he had seemed to grow
up a bit, maybe more than he had wanted too. After all he was only twentyone, and had already lost his Mother when he was younger and the thought
of him and his sister, Kate losing both parents well before they got anywhere
near thirty, just seemed cruel to Fraker.
There were times when he really missed that cocky little so-un-so Charlie
used to be, and he was always secretly glad when that side of the young man
reappeared every now and then, even if it was usually at the most
inopportune moments. “He only wants what’s best for you, Charlie.” Fraker
said as Charlie played with his cup frowning.
79
“Yeah, I know, but I’ve got to tell him the truth, as soon as he’s better,”
replied Charlie.
Only because he knew Charlie so well, Fraker couldn’t resist a dig to try
lighten the mood. “Maybe you should tell him now, while he’s still ill. That
way he won’t be able to catch you, let alone beat the crap out of you if he
does.”
And sure enough he was rewarded with a flash of the old Charlie. “True,
true but I think you’re forgetting the fact you’ve all been lying to my Dad too
y’know? And I’m sure, ill or not, he could still take down the lot of us.” A
broad smile cracked his young face.
“Ha! Too true mate,” Fraker pushed his half eaten muffin away and
drained the rest of his real coffee before getting to his feet. “Come on then
sparky, drink up your magical frothy coffee and let’s get a shift on.”
Charlie grabbed his coat and waved goodbye to Nicky who flushed and
waved back a little too enthusiastically.
The two men stepped out into the crisp morning air. “I think we should
walk, Charlie.” Optioned Fraker.
Charlie gave him a look. “That’s obscene! When we've got a perfectly
good gas guzzling taxi rank over there. The sooner you get fed up with this
health kick, the better for me and taxi drivers everywhere.”
“Me on a health kick? When was the last time you had a real cup of
coffee, and a proper sugary Muffin in the morning? Besides, it’s half a mile
for Christ sake, it won’t kill us.”
Charlie grunted and said half under his breath but loud enough for
Fraker to hear. “Well it won’t kill me Granddad.” Which earned him a solid
punch on the arm. “Ow, I’ll bruise there!”
“Come on!” And Fraker set off for the town centre at a brisk pace and
Charlie reluctantly followed.
All in all and despite Charlie’s reluctance, they made pretty good time
negotiating the early morning throng of people making their way through the
city streets ready to start another working day and made it to the Tropicana
club where Mister Lyne was holding court this morning with a good ten
minutes to spare. As they waited outside Lyne’s office for the official
80
summons, Fraker took the time to glance through the random tabloid he’d
picked up on the way while Charlie was busy playing with his new iPhone,
slave as he was to whatever the latest and greatest new gadget was.
“If that thing beeps once more, I’m smashing it,” said Fraker without
looking up from his paper.
Charlie instinctively shielded his new prize possession from harm. “Give
over, I’m still trying to work it out.”
“Well work it out on mute you tit!” Fraker replied.
“See what caffeine does for you?”
Fraker threw down his paper and made a half-hearted grab for the
phone. Which seemed to do the trick because Charlie put it in his coat
pocket. “You’re just jealous because you can’t even work your own phone.
And that doesn’t even have a fuckin’ camera!” Said Charlie incredulously.
“If I want to take a picture I’ll buy a fucking camera. Oddly I use my
phone to make fucking phone calls!” Then added. “Anyway, it does have a
camera, somewhere.”
“Freak,” said Charlie under his breath.
“How’s that bruise on your leg?” Fraker said to Charlie after a moment.
“What bruise?”
Fraker punched Charlie hard on his thigh. “That fuckin’ bruise,“ and he
roared with laughter at his own immaturity.
Charlie grasped his leg cursing. “Ow! That fucking hurt!” He started
rubbing it better. “I know people,” he announced. “I could have you fucking
killed!” Charlie tried to say it with a straight face but failed miserably and
both men laughed.
“How old are you two?” They turned to see Sally, Mister Lyne’s assistant
coming out of his office looking surly, obviously she had failed to find out
what the old man wanted Fraker and Charlie for and it showed. Fraker knew
she practically run things around here, so wouldn’t take too kindly to being
kept out of the loop.
“Morning, Sally,” said Charlie cheerfully and flashed her a smile but this
vanished when he saw her face.
81
She looked at them both like they were naughty school children about to
see the headmaster. Fraker didn’t know what it was about her but she scared
the hell out of him, even though she was some twenty years his junior.
“You can go in now,” she said, her voice sub-zero. She left the door to
Lyne’s office open and without giving them another look strode over to her
desk and sat down, her face like thunder. Fraker and Charlie exchanged and a
glance and a grimace before going through into Lyne’s office, they both knew
better than to say another word.
The old man was sitting behind his large oak desk which dominated the
office, he smiled warmly as they entered, he stood to ushered them inside.
“Bill, Charlie, come in lads, come in.” Lyne was dressed as ever in a Leeds
United replica shirt and tracksuit bottoms, in fact Fraker could barely
remember ever seeing him in a suit. He looked around the office, which Lyne
had covered almost every inch of wall space with football memorabilia. So
much so that whenever he came in here it felt like you were going to have a
word with the manager of your team. All this and at five feet nothing he was
the most unlikely looking gangster you could ever wish to meet.
“You wanted to see us, boss?” asked Fraker.
“Aye lads, sit down, eh? Can I get you a drink, coffee?”
Fraker sat opposite the old man while Charlie was busy looking at a
photo of Mister Lyne posing with a football team of kids he sponsored, ‘The
Hadley Harriers’ who he had played with as a youngster. His ears perked up
at the mention of coffee. “Oh, coffee...”
But Fraker cut him off. “No thanks, boss, we’re good” He wasn’t starting
that all over again.
“Charlie, how’s your Dad? I’ve been meaning to pop by and see him, but
you know how it is.” Asked Lyne playing with a silver paper opener.
Charlie tore himself away from the photos on the wall and took a seat
next to Fraker. “Oh, he’s getting a lot better, thanks Uncle Harry. Still in
hospital, they’re running tests and that, y’know? But he’s doing well. I’ve
been meaning to thank you, you know for the private room and everything.”

82
Lyne waved a dismissive bony hand at him. “Not a bit of it. He’s put a
lot of years in for us, inside and out. We go way back your Dad and me as
you know. I owe him a lot.”
“I know, but it really meant a lot to him, to all of us.” Charlie replied with
a weak smile.
“If he needs anything else, you just let me know. And don’t worry about
your Dad, it’ll take more than a bit of cancer to keep him down.
Fraker saw Charlie wince slightly at the word ‘cancer’ everyone knew his
Dad had it but no one apart from Lyne ever used the word. Fraker shifted in
his seat. “He still thinks Charlie’s an estate agent,” he said trying to lighten
the mood.
Lyne laughed out loud at this and clapped his hands together. Charlie
rolled his eyes. “Get out,” exclaimed Lyne. “He still hasn’t told him?”
“Nope,” replied Fraker, giving Charlie a sideways glance.
Charlie’s cheeks flushed. “I am gonna tell him,” he said. “I’m just waiting
until he gets better.” He was starting to pout like a child.
“I’d buy tickets to that,” said Lyne wiping the tears of laughter from his
milky eyes.
“Yeah, me ‘un all,” agreed Fraker.
Lyne’s face softened seeing Charlie squirm. “He just wants what’s best
for you Charlie, that’s all.”
“Yeah, so everyone keeps telling me,” said Charlie staring at his feet.
The old man looked at Charlie with genuine affection, he’d known him
man and boy and had once confided in Fraker, when they were both drunk
one night a couple of years ago, that he felt guilty for letting him join the
firm. He felt it was a betrayal of his old friend, Charlie’s Dad. But had
brightened somewhat when Fraker swore to look after him and above all keep
it from Charles senior.
“Right,” Lyne clapped his hands again like a teacher getting the attention
of the class. “Back to business, boys and the reason I’ve called you here.” He
paused for a moment, his grey eyes flitting between the two men. “I’ve got
83
two words for you. Larry McCulloch.” Then he lent back in his big chair and
waited for the inevitable response.
“The Larry McCulloch?” Exclaimed Fraker in disbelief.
Lyne nodded. “Uhuh, the one and only, and now very lonely, Mister Larry
McCulloch.”
“Lucky Larry McCulloch,” Fraker almost spat the words out.
Charlie looked a little perplexed. “Hang on, isn’t he dead? I heard he
turned up dead.”
“Huh,” said Fraker. “We should be so lucky. Please tell me someone has
finally tracked down that slippery little git.”
“No such luck I’m afraid,” continued Lyne. “He disappeared off the radar
last week, apparently some of Jessie Morgan’s boys were this close...” He held
his thumb and forefinger an inch apart, “to nabbing him. Now it turns out the
twat is turning Queen’s evidence and that his in bed with the secret service, so
that’s why no one can find him.”
Fraker shook his head in disgust, he had only ever met Larry McCulloch
once and had taken an instant dislike to the man. Larry was one of those
criminals who thought he was better than everyone else, so much so that he
fair radiated smugness. “More fool the government if they actually believe
any of his bullshit,” he said. “You know I heard he actually did sell his
Grandmother once.”
“So, just who’s after him anyway?” asked Charlie.
“Huh, everyone, I think,” said Fraker. “Anyway, boss, this is southern stuff
isn’t it?”
Lyne’s eyes wondered around the room as if searching for the right
words, but when none were forth coming he looked back at the two men with
the steadiest gaze he could muster. “I’ve been asked, well to be honest, told,
to lend a hand in tracking him down. It’s hard to explain, lads but suffice it to
say McCulloch has pissed off all the wrong people in a quite spectacular way
this time. Whoever he was working for want him bad. Guess he knows too
many things about too many powerful people. And it’s making everyone very
nervous.” Lyne furrowed his brow and his eyes glazed over for a moment. “It
was strange, we had a big meeting, all the big wigs were there and that hadn’t
84
happened for years. And I’ve...” His voice faltered as he remembered and for
the first time in all the years Fraker had known him he looked scared.
The old man stared off into space and Fraker wondered if he should say
something, when Lyne said, “I’ve never seen everyone look so, afraid before.”
Fraker leaned forwards in his seat, “Boss? Who was he working for?”
Lyne snapped out of it. “Dunno, but whoever it was has some of the
toughest men I have ever known, very, very nervous. I agreed to help out of
loyalty to the other bosses, but to be honest Bill, I don’t think I had any choice
in the matter.”
“Mafia, you reckon?” Whispered Charlie.
Both Lyne and Fraker laughed and the mood lightened somewhat.
“Yeah,” said Fraker. “Why not?”
“What? What did I say?” Protested Charlie.
Fraker gave him a look of pity then returned to the matter in hand.
“Alright, so we can say McCulloch has got some very funky enemies, nothing
new there, that guy was never too particular with who he did business with.
But where do me and Charlie fit in, boss?”
“They’ve sent some yank to help track him down. He’s in London at the
moment, but he’s coming up north and I need you two to meet him at Leeds
Bradford airport and look after him while he’s up here. Which with luck won’t
be for too long, then he’s some other buggers problem.”
“Is he a hitman? Asked Charlie.
“Tut, Charlie shut up.” Scolded Fraker.
“Don’t know and don’t care,” said Lyne. “Look. Listen to me, both of you.
I don’t won’t either of you getting mixed up in the finer points of why this
yank is here. Your job is to look after him. We’ve got the three of you
booked into a hotel in town. Do what the fella says up to a point. But if
McCulloch is up here and you do manage to find the twat, leave it to the
yank.” Lyne jabbed his finger at them both and added sternly. “I mean it, just
walk away. It’s none of our business. I don’t want either of you getting hurt.
Understand?”
The two men nodded, the point well and truly taken.
85
“Any idea why they might think McCulloch’s up here?”
Asked Fraker trying to hide his growing unease at how things were
unfolding.
“Yeah. Tommy Whitaker’s been seen up here. He’s McCulloch’s solicitor,
and we know he’s been the one trying to broker the deal so McCulloch can
spill his guts to Scotland Yard or whoever. Concentrate on tracking him
down. Find him and he’ll know where McCulloch is being hidden.”
“Yes boss,” said Fraker.
“No problem,” added Charlie.
Lyne looked grave as he drifted off into deep thought again, he seemed
to be feeling every one of his seventy years weighing down on him. Fraker
felt butterflies in his stomach and the overwhelming desire to get out of the
office, which was suddenly feeling oppressive, and out into the fresh air.
Charlie shifted uncomfortably in his seat. “Erm, anything else, Uncle
Harry?”
Lyne shook his head but didn't actually look directly back at them. “See
Sally, she’s got all the hotel and flight arrangements.”
Fraker and Charlie exchanged a look and both men rose from their seats.
Fraker fought the urge to ask the old man if he was okay. He cleared his
throat, which had gone dry. “Right, come on Charlie.” He said hoarsely and
gestured to the door with a nod of his head and they made a hasty exit
without another word.
TWELVE
Obeying the sign above his head and the practised request from the
brightly attired air stewardess, Father Peter Nichols secured his seatbelt and
braced himself for the planes final decent into a rainy Manchester
International Airport. Although Nichols had flown around the world half a
dozen times this was always the part of the flight he hated the most. And so
as the plane banked alarmingly to the right he felt that all too familiar knot in
86
his stomach. He grasped the ornate box sitting in his lap even more tightly
until the white of his knuckles showed through the pale skin of his sweaty
hands.
It still amazed Nichols how he had managed to get the box out of the
Vatican without the permission of the Cardinal. But he knew that was one
theft, even though it was for the right reasons, that he would have to account
for once all this was over, if he got back. But that was a worry for another
day.
The priest glanced out of the window to the rapidly approaching ground
and only now realized that, for all his globetrotting over the last twenty five
years, this was the first time he would set foot on British soil since the fateful
events on that cold September night at St. James'. When an old demon had
sort sanctuary in his church, bringing with it such chaos and of course his first
and so far last meeting with Sofia, although in the intervening years she had
never been too far from his thoughts.
When Father Nichols had awoke from what he had assumed would be his
final sleep, weeks later in a Vatican hospital, he had awoken a changed man in
so many ways. His fleeting glimpse into that world of walking nightmares had
left him with three things.
One, the battle scars carved deep in his chest from that darkness
dripping monster's little love tap. He idly traced his fingers over them
through the fabric of his shirt even now as he tended to do when deep in
thought.
Two, since Nichols had been the only person in over a hundred years to
actually witness and more importantly survive such events, he was now
officially the world’s leading authority on the soldiers of darkness, the
collectors and all their assorted kind. This was a title he had spent the last
few decades trying to live up to. Nichols had dedicated himself to the pursuit
of these evil creations who inhabited the world of shadows and rumour, and
to shine a light on their secret existence, and trying, so far in vain, to track
them down and, (he tapped the box held like a lover’s hand in his lap) to even
one day kill one of them.
And finally three, and secretly the only legacy from that night he truly
welcomed, was the still vivid memory of her. The cool bottomless pools of
pure blue that were her haunting eyes and the sweet music of her voice. All
87
still so crystal clear in his mind’s eye, undimmed even after all these years.
Nichols had never told anyone of his obsession and when he had recounted
countless times in the greatest of detail what had happened that night to the
Vatican's great and the good not to mention the several Popes that had come
and gone down the years, each of whom had listened wide eyed perched on
the edge of gilded seats. He had only ever skirted over her involvement
giving little more than a thumb nail sketch of her, jealously guarding his
knowledge as if it might diminish the memory of her if he spoke of her out
loud.
His obsessive research on the collectors which so impressed those
around him down through the years had all been in search of her if truth be
told. Any snippet of information he found in the Vatican's vast archives,
though sadly few, would spur him on a new to continue his quest with
renewed vigour.
There were times however since that night that Nichols had found
himself doubting her very existence. That it was nothing more than a figment
of his imagination. He had the scars to remember the creature by and the old
useless defence charm Macready had given him, scrawled in the old man's
blood on a scrap of paper, which he still kept with him at all times, 'for luck'.
But he had nothing but his memories of her brief but devastating cameo in
proceedings to remember her by.
He was so starved of information on her that even the merest hint of a
description in some century old account he came across served to keep those
doubts at bay. Secretly, his faith in past events renewed once more, Nichols
always hoped that when he jetted off to some far off place after another
possible encounter with one of the elusive soldiers of darkness. That the
soldier in question would be her. But sadly not this time, for once, this time
Nichols knew the name in advance.
Yes, a collector was close again, or as close as it were possible to get in
such a clandestine war. The rumour had become flesh once more and this
time if accounts were to be believed with a positive I.D no less, (of course not
the one he would have hoped for). This was rare to say the least with a thing
so elusive that few, even in Nichols' own department actually believed existed
outside of folk tales and ghost stories.
88
But in the end that was their biggest strength, always nothing more than
the hint of smoke on the wind to those lucky enough to inhabit the real
world, a luxury Nichols no longer had. It was this growing scepticism he was
confronted with on an almost daily basis these days it seemed, even among
men of so called faith. Hence the theft of the box.
So off Nichols dutifully went, and if things followed the normal sequence
of events in cases like these, he would be always one step behind his quarry,
until finally it would melt back into the unknown again, leaving behind one
scene of woe or another. And Nichols would have to explain coming back
empty handed, except for the usual hefty expense bill once more, to those of
who scarcely believed as it was and would now, with no evidence but the
misery left behind, believe even less (if such a thing were possible) in the war
he was waging.
But somehow this time more than any other Nichols truly believed things
might be different if he could just keep his faith. Mainly this was due to the
fact that this particular incarnation of evil was something of a celebrity to
those dwindling few whom still believed in ‘the game’ as Sofia had once
called it. Nichols had heard and read the name half a hundred times
throughout his long years of research, seen the records of his particular brand
of mischief making in the Vatican archives, and even the odd grainy out of
focus photograph (aren't they always?) laying claim to be of him.
Him. Yes the infamous Randall had come to Britain, and this time Nichols
not only had hearsay to go on, he had the name of the unfortunate who had
somehow unwittingly attracted the attentions of a collector. So once again it
would be here on home soil that Father Nichols would have the dubious
honour to come face to face with the darkness again, look it in its eyes and
feel its breath on his face.
And all because of that one cold September night so many years ago,
when he had been chosen quite at random and baptised in his own blood to
lead the fight for the light against those walking and talking nightmares that
call darkness and misery home.


THIRTEEN
89
Banter! Christ knows how it happened, but he was now sick of the
endless banal chatter. Usually, Larry McCulloch was the master of witty
banter and he liked nothing better than to verbally cut his lesser man down to
size with a well-aimed quip or two. He was even known to take the odd verbal
barb in good humour if it was good enough. But lately over the last couple of
days holed up in this two star (at best) prison Larry had found that particular
dish harder and harder to swallow.
He came trudging out of the toilet, a place he felt his life was going these
days, and back into the dubious sanctuary of his bedroom. Through the net
curtained window he could see the sky outside was an ominous slate grey
and was threatening to unleash a torrent of snow as it had all morning. This
did little to ease the increasing feeling Larry had of impending doom.
Quite simply, as he waited for deliverance from this nineties wall papered
nightmare, Larry McCulloch had too much time on his hands. Time he could
only spend thinking about his desperate situation and more often than not
this would lead to his mind wandering back to the disturbing telephone
conversation he had had with Tommy Whitaker the other day. When was that
anyway? Yesterday? Or the day before that? The days just seemed to merge
into one waking nightmare of late. And the more his mind drifted back to the
rambling rant from the young lawyer, the more it... No, not scared him, not
that. Larry McCulloch had been many things in his time, but never flat out
scared. Though he had to admit to himself that the conversation had left
him... Unnerved.
To hear Whitaker lose it so profoundly had chilled Larry to the core.
Tommy had always given off such an effortless air of self-controlled
confidence in any given situation Larry had seen thrown at him. Some of
these could have literally been fatal to either man. But the lawyer, like Larry
himself, had the ability to keep icy cool and use the gift of the gab to talking
himself out of even the tightest situation. That was why the old crook had
gravitated towards Whitaker, he could talk the talk and that was a gift they
both had in spades.
So to hear him babbling like a lunatic down the phone like that, all
composure shot to hell, unnerved Larry alright, but worse still was that
diamond edged tone of pure conviction in his voice, it made Larry physically
shudder of think of it.
90
Larry had heard Whitaker bullshit a thousand times before, so much so
that he knew without a doubt that the lawyer believed one hundred per cent
in what he was saying no matter how fantastical and downright insane it
sounded. That would... Unnerve anyone.
“Fuck,” Larry said out loud and shook his head as if to dislodge the
memory. He came away from the window and over to his bedside table and
poured himself a generous measure of cheap whiskey. He checked his watch
before raising the glass to his lips. 11:30am. Far too early for anyone but the
most dedicated of drunks to have a shot at this hour. But what the hell he
thought with shrug, it must be cocktail hour somewhere in the world.
And thus, feeling suitably vindicated, Larry took a long swig and drained
the glass in one, it made him wince but was soon rewarded as the calming
effect was almost instantaneous as the acid in his stomach turned to a warm
calm feeling that soon reached his over active brain washing the last of the
anxiety away to the back of his mind.
He held up the bottle which was now only a quarter full and made a face.
No way would that be enough to get him through the rest of the day, let
alone the seemingly endless nights in this place. That meant he would have
to see if he could coax Lewis, or better still bully the kid Jeff into going out on
another 'food run' to the twenty for hour super market close by a little later.
This place was bad enough when you were half drunk, but sober he would
throw himself out of the window before tea time.
As if on cue, Larry heard the terrible twosome clattering around
downstairs in a fuss about something or other. He went over to the bedroom
door which was still ajar and listened but couldn't make out much of what
they were saying although he could hear the occasional burst of static coming
from their walkie-talkies.
Finally, Lewis bellowed up the stairs, “Hey Larry.”
“What?” Larry bellowed back coming out onto the landing.
“Show time. Make yourself presentable, the boss is here.”
Larry felt a wave of relief wash over him, it was as if he'd just taken a
drink of twenty five year old single malt whiskey and not that cheap crap
Lewis insisted on buying, and it felt good. At last, after all the bullshit a
chance to shine, to do what he did best. Manipulate weaker minded people
91
for his own ends. He nodded to himself, so the man from the ministry was
finally here was he? Right.
He walked briskly back into his room with a veritable spring in his step
and over to the bedside table again where he poured himself another shot of
whiskey to complement the endorphins racing through his system. He
downed the drink in one. “Show time,” he hissed and grimaced against the
taste.
Show time indeed. Larry glanced to his left and out the window once
more. Maybe it was the alcohol taking effect but suddenly the sky outside
didn't seem quite so foreboding any more. He walked over to the full length
mirror on the wardrobe door and studied his reflection, he patted down his
shirt in a vain attempt to smooth to the creases but soon gave it up as a bad
job, what the hell did it matter anyway? His whole body looked like it could
do with a good iron lately. This won a smile from the old crook and he could
see for the first time in a long, long time the old Larry McCulloch starting to
shine through again.
Things were finally beginning to move in the right direction, his. Soon he
would be able to get the hell out of this shit hole and into some place more
fitting his five star status. He almost (almost) felt sorry for that poor
unsuspecting pencil pusher downstairs who was about to reap the whirlwind
of frustration that had slowly been building up in him over the past week.
The poor bastard wouldn't know what hit him.
Larry McCulloch is on his way back to the top baby, now was his time to
have it all, just like the good old days, to get what he wanted when he wanted
it and to hell with Tommy Whitaker. Soon this nightmare would be nothing
more than a half forgotten anecdote in the amazing life story of 'Lucky' Larry
McCulloch's rise back to the big time. This deal he had decided would make
him a legend, the day he made the whole British government pay through the
nose for the wealth of information he, and he alone had.
Public figures would fall and the press would have its feeding frenzy. Oh
the dirt he would sling and the price they would have to pay to get it. Yes sir,
he would make those bastards pay until they wept.
And then? Then he would simply melt away to somewhere hot, write his
memoirs and watch the whole sorry mess he had created unfold on his sixty
inch plasma TV.
92
Larry realised he was still holding the whiskey bottle, he held it up and
flicked the glass with the index finger of his other hand, it looked like he
wouldn't be needing its Dutch courage any more so he tossed it onto the
bed. And with this, Larry walked confidently over to the bedroom door, out
on the landing and set off down the stairs taking them two at a time eager to
meet his guest and give him what for. And he felt good for the first time
since this whole sorry chapter had begun.
It didn't last.
“You're a Priest!” Larry McCulloch was exasperation personified.
He stopped dead in the living room doorway as the wind was well and
truly knocked out of his self-righteous sails. He almost gasped out loud; it felt
like he had walked into a vacuum which sucked all the air out of his lungs. It
robbed him of something worse still. Hope.
There was a priest, of all people, standing in the middle of the room
talking with Peroni. He turned and smiled at Larry as if his being there was
the most natural thing in the world.
“Well, well,” Father Nichols said. “The infamous Larry McCulloch I
presume?” Nichols couldn't help but smile, McCulloch had a look on his face
like someone had just slapped him across the face with a wet fish while loudly
calling into question his Mother’s virtue. The man quite literally had his
mouth open in shock.
“But, but... You're a priest,” Larry repeated with equal disbelief.
“I told you he was quick, Father,” Peroni said.
The priest studied the dumb struck crook who was still glued to the spot.
“I must say Larry, if I may call you Larry? Your reputation precedes you.”
Nichols moved forwards to greet McCulloch, who clearly couldn't move, and
offered him his hand. “I thought you'd be taller.”
“A priest,” Larry said for a third time as if somehow repeating the
statement wouldn't make it so.
Just then Lewis barged in past Larry and came into the room. “Come on
Larry,” he said. “Shake the man's hand.”
93
“Lewis! Good to see you again,” Nichols said with genuine warmth.
Although he had only met Lewis a handful of times he liked the man, he had a
great sense of humour and a good heart.
“You too, Father,” Lewis beamed and shook his hand.
Nichols turned back to Larry who had gone a remarkable shade of white
and was still rooted in the doorway trying to take in this unexpected turn of
events. “Come in old man, you're among friends here,” Nichols told him.
The three of them looked at Larry for the longest time waiting for any
signs of life. It was Peroni who spoke next, “You alright Larry?”
McCulloch finally tore his eyes away from Nichols' dog collar, “Is this
some kind of joke?” He asked, the venom returning to his voice. “A fucking
priest?”
“You were expecting maybe the Pope?” Nichols asked good naturedly.
“No,” Larry said and took a couple of steps into the room. “I was
expecting someone from MI5, or at least the government. Like I was
promised.”
“Arh,” Lewis said with no little glee. “To be fair, no one actually said that.
Technically speaking.”
Nichols looked perplexed. “MI5? What are we spies now?” He looked
from Lewis to Peroni who shrugged.
“Are you all bloody comedians or what?” Larry said throwing his hands in
the air. He could feel his blood pressure going through the roof, the calming
effect of the whiskey now long gone. He desperately told himself to stay
calm, in control, at least outwardly but as usual he didn't listen to himself.
“Now, is somebody going to tell me what the hell is going on here?” He flung
a derisory hand in the general direction of Nichols but kept his eyes on
Peroni. “Why is there a fucking priest here, Peroni? And please, don't tell me
he's a kiss-a-gram.”
He had always found Peroni to be a humourless woman, but this
comment won a look from her that was dangerously close to a smirk. He
didn't need to look across at the clown Lewis to know he had an idiot grin
plastered all over his face.
94
“A kiss-a-gram?” She said. Yes it was definitely the beginnings of a
smirk.
“Only on a weekend.” The priest replied, quite deadpan.
“I fucking swear I'm gonna kill Tommy Whitaker,” Larry shook his head in
disbelief and began pacing the room. “I'm sorry Padre, I don't know what this
shit is about, but believe me, I'm not the confessing type.” Larry said without
looking at the priest. He ran a sweaty hand through his thinning grey hair
and chewed on his bottom lip. Was this fucking candid camera or what? He
could feel that all too familiar knot in his stomach again, like a fist twisting at
his guts.
“Oh really?” Nichols watched the old crook as he paced, the poor guy
looked fit to pass out and the priest decide enough teasing was enough. “But
isn't that why you are here?”
“Not to a priest, no,” Larry said and finally stopped pacing, he turned to
the priest and was surprised to see a look of genuine concern on his face but
tried to ignore it. “There's no profit in salvation, Father. If you're here to save
my soul. You're a little late for that my friend.”
The priest nodded and frowned, “Never a truer word spoken, I'm afraid.”
He said then took off his heavy winter coat and tossed it over the arm of a
nearby chair. “But call me an optimist, I believe there is always hope.” He
gestured at Larry. “Even for a scoundrel like you.”
“Feh!” McCulloch hissed through his teeth and began pacing again like a
caged beast.
Nichols thought the old crook looked much frailer than his reputation
had led him to believe.
“Larry, take a seat, please,” Peroni said. “You look fit to drop.”
“I'll stand,” Larry said to her and was glad to see at least she had stopped
smirking which was one thing. But stopped his pacing all the same.
“As you wish,” she said defensively.
“What's going on here?” Larry wanted to know and looked at the three
stooges for answers.
“Things, things aren't what they seem, Larry,” Nichols said plainly.
95
“Huh! No shit,” Larry snapped back, then added, “If you really are a
priest.”
“I can assure you I am,” Nichols replied. “I'm here to make sure you do
the right thing, Larry.” He raised an eyebrow, “even if it's not for the right
reason.”
The right thing? For whom? Larry wondered. The two whiskeys he had
recently sunk were making him sweat even more, or at least that's what he
told himself. But deep down he knew the reason for the sodden shirt clinging
to his back. It was the coming punch line to this little joke, and it was one he
knew he wasn't going to like.
“Why do I get the feeling,” he said tasting bile at the back of his throat.
“That I'm not going to like this?” It was a rhetorical question. The next
question wasn't even though he knew the answer. “There never was a deal
with MI5, was there?”
“To be fair,” Peroni said looking suitably apologetic. “We never actually
said there was.”
McCulloch did a quick rewind of current events in his head. It was true
though it sickened him to admit it, all talk of MI5 and deals with the
government after they had taken him out of police custody had all come from
McCulloch himself. That left him with one more question. If these people
didn't work for the government, then who the hell did they work for?
“It's all a bit... Complicated,” Nichols said as if reading his mind. “We
were called in by the government when it became clear they could no longer
protect you. They were a little out of their league, out of their... How can I
put it? Area of expertise and into ours.”
“This is bollocks!” Larry felt the sudden urge to get out of here, just pack
up and just go, though he didn't have a clue where to. “Okay,” he said as
firmly as he could. “So you're not the government. Then I'm just fucking
wasting my time here. So what's to stop me just walking away from this
farce?” He could feel that old familiar feeling of helplessness creeping over
him, but he was damned if he was going to let it show. He cleared his throat
before continuing. “What's to stop me going to the real MI5. I've got a lot of
valuable information. Information people should be falling over themselves
96
to get.” It all came out in a bit too much of a ramble but it was done now, he
just had to keep up the facade of confidence.
“Quite frankly,” Nichols said flatly. “Nobody wants it.”
“What? Don't talk shit.” Larry cursed himself for sounding so desperate.
He glanced skyward; this was all going horribly wrong.
“That ship has long since sailed, Larry.” Nichols continued. “Your
information is worthless to put it bluntly. You see association with you these
days holds too higher price. It's just not worth crossing those who want you.
Even her majesty’s government knows when it's out of its depth.”
The words hit Larry like a truck filled with anvils, he looked from the
ceiling to his feet and half expected to see the floor fall away and swallow him
whole. His trump card worthless? Impossible... Right?
“Larry, take a seat, hear me out,” the priest said.
“Stow it,” Larry spat out, he couldn't look the priest in the face, but made
the mistake of glancing at Lewis who was grinning. “Fuck!” He cursed
screwing his eyes shut. He could feel this pulse pounding in his temples and
he knew he must look as red as a beetroot.
“Larry sit down, please,” it was Peroni this time, her voice softer than
Larry could have thought possible. “Please,” she said again softer still. “Hear
what Father Nichols has to say.”
“I'll stand.” Larry stated but at least looked the priest in the eye this time.
Who’s face was a picture of concern.
“Come on Larry, let's get you a drink. It won't help anyone if you have a
thrombosis.”
“I don't want a drink, I want the fucking point to all this.”
Nichols nodded. “Okay. Firstly on your earlier point. There is nothing
whatsoever to stop you from walking away from us. You're not our prisoner.”
He gestured to the door. “There it is no one here will stand in your way.”
“I'll help you pack,” Lewis offered.
“Lewis!” Peroni scolded the edge back in her voice. “That's not helping.”
And at least Larry got to see the smirk drop of his face.
97
“Sorry Chief,” Lewis said sheepishly.
“And secondly,” Nichols continued. “MI5, nor anyone in the government
will touch you anymore. Not now they know what's after you.”
'What's after you?' Larry thought it was an odd chose of words.
“It was MI5 who called us in.” Nichols paused for a moment, then,
“Everyone knows about this famous mine of information you have. But right
now, because of what you've gotten yourself into. That all means nothing.”
Larry thought he might have swooned slightly at this, he felt as if that
truck full of anvils had just begun reversing to have another go at him.
Peroni took a step towards Larry, she held out a hand to steady him but
McCulloch pulled away. She frowned. “They have washed their hands of you,
Larry, regardless of who you can turn states evidence on. That option is over
for you now.” She said.
Larry looked at the floor again, this time he wished it really would open
up. Although he didn't like the idea of where that would take him. Down.
Nichols moved over to the sofa and sat down. He turned to Lewis who
looked like he didn't know whether to catch Larry if he passed out of push
him over himself. The man clearly needed something to do. “Lewis. How
about getting us all some tea?”
“Yes sir, right away.” Lewis replied and left post haste.
McCulloch watched him go and then looked over at Peroni who smiled
back at him, again with genuine concern. He was beginning to feel more and
more like a condemned man.
“Now,” said Nichols. “If you actually have any desire to get out of this
colossal mess you're in. I think it's worth ten minutes of your time to hear
what I have to say?”
Silence hung in the air for a moment, which felt heavy and oppressive to
the old crook. He swallowed hard and actually thought he was going to be
physically sick right then and there on the living room carpet. To hear it so
plainly stated that everything he had hoped for, his get out of jail free card,
his much relied on retirement plan, were all gone damn near put him on his
arse.
98
“Okay,” he said, his voice barely a whisper. And then sat down in a chair
opposite the priest before he fell down. He could feel the two pairs of eyes
boring into the top of his skull as he lent forward and put his head in his
hands, but he just didn't care as the last breath of bravado left his body.
It seemed like an age before Peroni's voice broke the spell. “Father, I
forgot to mention, Larry has been in contact with Thomas Whitaker.”
“Oh, right.” Nichols had almost forgotten about the hapless lawyer.
“How did he sound?” He asked Larry who was staring off into space looking
shell-shocked. His eyes flashed fear and narrowed.
“Out of his mind,” he replied still studying the oblivion over Nichols'
shoulder. “He was babbling like an idiot. Coming out with all kinds of
bollocks.”
The priest snorted. “Can't say as I blame him. It sounds like he's had a
taste of what's happening to him. Realization can be a real kick in the balls all
right.” He flashed Peroni an apologetic grimace at using the word balls. But
the Woman had heard and said much worse he knew, but still tame as it was
he was still a priest after all.
She smiled and raised an eyebrow as if to say, 'you're apologising for
that? I could teach you a few phases and in Italian too!' “Still, it's a shame,”
Nichols lamented returning to the topic in hand, “I had hoped we could get to
Whitaker in time. Save two souls for the price of one to coin a phrase.”
Souls, odd chose of word thought Larry or at least he hoped it was.
“Fuck Whitaker,” he said almost petulantly and a little louder than he'd meant.
“I'm the one everybody wants ten shades of dead!” He bit his lip and held his
breath for a second to try to calm himself. He needed somehow to wrestle
back control of his situation, before he lost it completely. He couldn't think
straight long enough to keep a level head and that was dangerous, he could
easily get rail-roaded into something here. Maybe it was the alcohol clouding
his thought process, but he just couldn't keep a lid on the crushing
disappointment he felt, the growing sense of helplessness.
“Tommy Whitaker,” Nichols did his best to keep his voice slow and calm.
He had a lot to explain to McCulloch, most of which he wouldn't believe, even
if, as Nichols suspected knowing the man's past associations, he must have a
99
slight inkling of where this was going. “Like you, Larry, has underestimated
whom he has double-crossed.”
'Double-crossed?' Christ the list was endless, but something at the back
of Larry's mind dragged him back to a cold Eastern European night last year.
Back to six lost souls standing in a Polish field awaiting their fate. That and
been a double-cross to end them all. And that had been the start of all this
hadn't it? When he thought about it? That had been the straw that broke the
camel’s back and had sent him running at Whitaker's behest into the arms of
what he had thought at the time was the Government and his long hoped for
Queen's evidence trump card.
“Mind you,” Nichols said dragging Larry back to the matter at hand. “If
he was as agitated as you say, then perhaps he was had a glimpse at what he
has gotten himself into. In many ways, now that you are under our
protection, if you choose it of course. Whitaker is now the key in all this for
those who want you are concerned. After all, it would be better for him to
turn you over to them if they ever get their hands on him.”
Larry grunted at the thought of Whitaker spilling his guts to his enemies.
“I've no doubt that guy would turn me over in a heartbeat if it would save his
sorry neck.” Larry said plainly. “But he doesn't know where I am.” He
glanced over at Peroni who had perched herself on the sofas arm. “Or at least
I don't think he does.” This won little more than a slight raise of the eyebrow
from the stoic Italian.
“And you have no idea where he might be?” Nichols asked.
“In a nut house for all I know,” Larry replied. “But don't worry about
Whitaker. No one will find him. He's even more paranoid than me.” He
added bitterly.
The priest frowned. “Oh, they will find him, I'm afraid.”
It was a fact plainly stated. Larry looked at his face for any sign of doubt,
and thus hope, but looked at his feet again seeing none.
“And when they do, they'll find you.” The priest added his tone solemn.
The words weighed heavy on Larry's already overburdened shoulders, his
head was pounding again at all the bottled up stress that threatened to split
his skull, but a smile found his lips all the same as it occurred to him that he
100
might actually have a heart attack right then and there and die on the spot.
That would be irony in the brightest Las Vegas neon lights. He could feel the
pair gaze on him once more but he just couldn't help himself, he let out a
short bitter laugh at the thought of keeling over and imagined the looks on
their faces.
Things were looking about as bleak as he could remember and he was
reminded of something someone once said to him a few years back when
faced with only slightly better odds than he was now. 'Well Larry old love, in
times such as these, you've got two hopes of getting out of this mess alive.
No hope and Bob Hope... And Bob Hope’s dead.’
“Bob Hope,” he said out loud.
“Larry?” It was Peroni, she had a look of pure puzzlement on her face
and it took him a moment to figure out why. Despite everything he was
grinning from ear to ear.
“I know you feel all hope is lost,” she went on with practised calm. “But
we can help you, if you will let us. They haven't got to you yet.”
“They! They!” Larry snapped and was on his feet before he realised it
and it made his head swim and wiped the grin, manic or not, off his face and
replaced it with a scowl. “Just who the hell are they anyway?” He asked.
“Enough of all this cloak and dagger shit. Is somebody actually going to tell
me who the hell you people are?”
Peroni was on her feet now. “Hey, Larry calm down,” she said firmly. “It's
this so called cloak and dagger shit that's kept you alive this long.” She dwelt
on the word shit as if enjoying swearing, something Larry realised he had
never actually heard any of them do before.
“Ania, please,” Nichols said softly and still sitting, gently took a hold of
her arm, she nodded and pulled away turning her back on them both to
compose herself.
“We had to let it be known you were with the police, to perpetuate the
whole Queen's evidence thing.” He gestured for Larry to sit, which he did.
“Just cut to the fucking chase,” Larry said. “What the fuck have I gotten
myself into, and who the fuck are they?
101
Arh, here it comes, thought Nichols, he had faced that question countless
times down through the years and had found it was best, when shattering
somebody’s notion of reality to begin with the basics, not sugar coat it, just
come straight out with the facts and lay them out as simply as he could which
was no small tasked faced with the subject matter.
“Perhaps we should wait for the tea,” he said.
“Fuck the tea,” Larry snapped. He heard Peroni 'tut' at his language
which gave him no small satisfaction, but the priest didn't bat an eye, which
was a little disappointing.
“Very well,” Nichols said. “Tell me, have you ever heard of a man, and I
use the word loosely, called Randall?”
Larry breath caught in his throat and the sweat on his back turned to ice
water. He did his best to nonchalantly clear his throat. “This is about Poland,
isn't it?”
The priest nodded. “That whole episode was low, even for you Larry. I
mean, people trafficking?”
Larry couldn't think of anything to do but shrug. It wasn't something he
was particularly proud of but in principal he had nothing against people
trafficking per say, except that it presented extra risk to the trafficker. After all
drugs or stolen goods can't give the police a detailed description of you or
pick you out of a police line-up, can they? People had an annoying tendency
to do that.
Poland, fuck. He had always known that little jaunt would be the death
of him.
“Randall? So you have heard of him?” The priest asked again.
Larry shivered, he felt as cold as he had done when he was in that
godforsaken country. Yes he knew the name, or at least the reputation
attached to it.
“The Yank? Sure, he's a Hit man, isn't he?” Larry asked.
Nichols looked grave. “I'm going to need you to keep a tight hold on
your suspension of disbelief here, Larry.
102
“Go on.” Larry felt fit to pass out. Maybe a heart attack wouldn’t be such
a bad way to go out.
“No Larry he's not a hit man.” Nichols said plainly. “Randall is a soul
collector.”
FOURTEEN
Now, contrary to what you might think, the life of a soul collector isn’t all
fun and games. Of course there is the odd epic battle between the forces of
good and evil, resulting in its fair share of death, destruction and the always
popular suffering. But mostly it’s a mundane existence, consisting of months
of plotting and planning, or simply waiting for the events you have set in
motion to unfold. And the results it has to be said are quite often a let-down.
There is, to put it bluntly, a significant amount of ‘down time.’ A fact Randall
found out quite early on, much to his chagrin.
The job, he had been told over and over again, was to cause as much
minor mayhem as possible, to upset the balance of things. Move quietly
through people’s lives, reaping only when and where it will go un-noticed to
the world at large. People don’t believe in demons and monsters and it has
to stay that way. Stick to the rules, collector they would say. Anonymity is
our greatest ally.
The general rule of thumb, as Randall liked to interpret it, was to do
whatever the hell you like, just as long as you get the soul at the end of things
and whatever mess is left behind can be explained away, no matter how
tenuously, by the wonders of modern science. And in this case, standing in
the late Mrs. Mullan’s kitchen, he’d done just that. Okay, so it had been a
touch on the messy side, even Randall had been surprised at the vigour the
usually meek Mr. Mullan had shown when hacking his wife to death. She had
been a big women, but even so that was a lot of blood, he had to tiptoe out
to avoid standing in it, thus leaving tell-tale footprints.
103
Climbing the stairs, Randall heard a thud from one of the bedrooms. Job
done, chalk one up for the bad guys, he thought. And sure enough when he
went into the room at the top of the stairs, the former Mr. Mullan was
hanging from a makeshift noose over the chair he’d just kicked over. Where
he kicked and chocked for a moment, before his life finally gave out.
That was another thing that disappointed him about being a collector.
When a soul leaves the body, destined for good or evil, nothing happens.
Where was the light show? The celestial choir or the screech of hell spawns?
Nothing. Randall remembered his very first soul collection, talk about an anticlimax. Is that it? Very poor.
“Are you pleased, master?” The voice was ethereal, coming from behind
him in the corner of the room, Randall turned to face his fading creation. The
succubus, sitting against the wall with its knees drawn up under its chin was
already starting to dissipate, returning to the smoke from which it had been
formed some three weeks earlier.
Randall nodded, “Yes, you did well, you can sleep now.” And so content
at a job well done, the succubus faded away before his eyes. Now that,
Randall thought, was a work of art. Although he’d never tried a succubus
before it had worked perfectly, it was a classic scenario; Mild mannered
middle aged Husband, loving Wife, nice suburban setting, into which Randall
had introduced the succubus, then it was just a matter of standing back and
wait for the fireworks.
Over the past three weeks the succubus had worked her feminine charms
on Mullan, visible only to him, and it was a deception he’d taken to with an
almost indecent haste. She turned everything he had loved about his wife on
its head, with whispered flirtations and promises of undying passion, if only
they could be rid of her.
All those little faults he had once thought endearing now grated on every
nerve ending, even the sound of her sweet voice raised his hackles towards
the end. Until finally, just ten minutes ago, he’d finally snapped. And the
reason for his murderous rage? An under cook hard-boiled egg. That had
brought a smile to Randall’s face he had to admit.
With the mission accomplished, and any evidence of other worldly
intrusion, literally disappearing up in smoke, it was time to get gone. The
police would find the unfortunate pair in a day or so and everyone would be
104
suitably shocked. It would probably run in the local press for a couple of days
then die a death when the next tragedy of the week came along.
The temperature in the room suddenly dropped a few degrees instantly,
which mean only one thing, Ishrel had arrived. His/hers/it’s (Randall had
never been quite sure, but we’ll stick with ‘him’ for now) arrival was always
heralded this way, followed a little too closely by that ever present sulphur
smell.
He could feel the pressure in the room change as the demon appeared
behind him. “I was beginning to think I’d lost you, Ishrel.” Randall said
without turning around. He watched as the last of the succubus faded away.
The ‘death’ of one of his creations always made him feel a little melancholy,
they were a part of him he could never get back, their only wish, to serve their
Father and then disappear for ever. He was sure they were happy to go after
serving him so well, but still. He shook the feeling off and patted his pockets
for a cigarette. He had none.
“I knew I’d find you moonlighting, what’s this, a little side project?” The
demon’s voice was almost cavernous in its lack of emotion. This was a big
part of why Randall liked to rile him so much, to try and squeeze even the
slightest inflection out of it, which could be done on occasion if he was
particularly vexed. That and, well it was fun to wind the little fucker up.
Ishrel was Randall’s observer demon; every collector had one, that was
one of the many rules. He was a kind of netherworld bureaucrat, just a low
level critter as Randall understood it. Randall’s Jiminy Cricket, his conscience.
But really all he was, was a nosey son of a bitch with absolutely no sense of
humour, whose job it was, was to make sure he stuck to the rules and go
running off to its superiors if Randall bent them even a little. Which he had to
admit, tended to be quite often.
“Things have been a little slow, just keeping myself busy.” Randall said,
still with his back to the demon. He allowed himself a little smile and closed
his eyes concentrating. The moment he did, he heard Ishrel grunt.
“Don’t you dare!” The demon said and Randall thought he detected a
little emotion in the vacuum that was his voice.
Ishrel was a demon, but not in the; 'I’ll tear you apart’ type. He couldn’t
even affect the dust in the air around him, he was just... There. The only form
105
it could muster on its own was the vaguest hint of a heat haze type distortion
floating a few feet off the ground. That was unless you concentrated really
hard as Randall was doing now, then you could make him appear exactly who
you wanted him to, which was a lot of fun when you were bored, or just
feeling immature.
It hadn’t taken Randall long to realise that Ishrel was basically
incorporeal, he had no physical form other than what it could feebly project.
But it did have its tricks to those who didn't know any better. During their
first meeting years ago in New York Ishrel had appeared to Randall as a
classic movie demon, all smoke and horns, with a booming voice to match.
But that hadn’t lasted long, the cracks in this façade soon began to show
themselves, Ishrel did his best to keep the illusion going but it just wasn’t him.
And that’s when Randall really started to have fun.
And so, Randall concentrated, he made a mental picture in his head as to
what he wanted the demon to look like. When he had it he couldn’t help but
let out a laugh.
“Oh, for crying out loud,” sighed Ishrel, and Randall knew it had worked
like a charm. He turned to face the demon, who sure enough was now
wearing a cheap children’s Halloween mask, a school girl outfit and body to
match. Ishrel looked down at himself and shook his head in quiet resignation,
before saying; “God I hate you, collector.”
“I know.” He gestured to the still twitching Mister Mullan. “One more for
the cause,” he said, although he still wasn’t too sure what ‘the cause’ was.
He’d long since stopped keeping score, but he was sure Ishrel would know.
“How many does that make?” He asked.
Ishrel was still taking in his new attire. “You are a sick, sick puppy,
Randall, you know that?”
The collector shrugged. It was an old game, but one he never got tired
of, anything to cut the officious little shit down to size. He had heard that this
little trick actually worked for the Devil himself, but woe betide the poor sap
who tried that on the fallen one.
“If you’ve quite finished playing dress up with me,” Ishrel said. “Can we
please get back to the real job in hand? Not this little,” Ishrel swept his
schoolgirl hand around the room, “interlude.”
106
“Job?” Said Randall, feigning ignorance.
Ishrel’s masked head dropped, and he shook it once more, this time
accompanied by a sign. “McCulloch? Your primary assignment?”
Ah, yes, the petty hood Randall had been charged with finding and
causing mischief to. It wasn't often a collector like Randall was given a
specific target, so he knew this McCulloch character must have done
something pretty bad to deserve such a dubious honour. Normally it would
have been little more than a formality for him to track the unfortunate down
and have one of his more meaner creations rip him to shreds, but somehow
this lowly crook had remained hidden from all of Randall’s best efforts. This
could only mean one thing. Larry McCulloch had protection.
“McCulloch's with the God squad.” Randall said plainly, and turned to
look at the observer demon.
“The God squad?” Ishrel echoed albeit tonelessly. “Are you sure?”
“Hundred per cent,” Randall replied and idly pushed Mullan's dandling
body with his index finger making it swing gently. The motion was almost
soothing and it helped Randall think. He had noticed lately that he could
think more clearly amongst the dead. Kindred spirits that they were.
It made sense that the reason there was no trace of the old crook was
due to the fact that somehow he had found the God squad, as the collectors
like to call them. Or more likely the God squad had found McCulloch.
The school girl in the cheap Halloween mask began pacing the floor.
Randall watched it and was now beginning to regret the illusion as it was
starting to creep even him out, which was no small achievement. “But how?”
Ishrel asked. “We have no outward connection to McCulloch. How could
they possibly know we are seeking him?”
“Beats me,” Randall said with a shrug. If he was honest he didn't really
care, if anything it made the chase all the more worthwhile. Who knows
maybe it would lead to a good old fashioned showdown. It had been years
since the last really decent one of those. “But let's face it. I don't even know
what the connection is. Remember?”
This stopped Ishrel in his tracks, and Randall thought he heard the
demon mutter something from under the mask. When Randall had been
107
given the assignment he had been told by Ishrel in no uncertain terms that
the connection between this petty crook and the forces of darkness was on a
strictly need to know basis.
Although it was irrelevant for his job, Randall knew that these days the
forces of darkness did more and more covert business with those in the
mortal world. Mostly delving into the world of underground crime whose
population didn't ask too many questions about who or what they were doing
business with as long as the money was good they could handle the rumours
about the dubious nature of their silent partners.
The deal was always mutually beneficial as the fight against good didn't
fund itself, even those in the Devil’s employ need cold hard cash sometimes.
Randall himself, as a front line soldier rarely got involved in such dealings as
he liked to work alone, but sometimes as with the case of Larry McCulloch he
had no choice but to interact with mortals again.
“If this is true,” Ishrel said and putting his girly hands behind his back
began pacing again. “It complicates matters.”
Randall watched the absurd creation pace away. “Makes things more
interesting, that's all.” He patted his pockets again but remembered he was
all out of smokes. But he did remember the late Mr. Mullan had been a
smoker, which was one of his few vices until of course he added murder and
suicide to them. So Randall reached up and rummaged through the dead
man's pockets and was rewarded with half a pack of cigarettes and a cheap
plastic disposable lighter.
He offered a cigarette to the School girl. “Smoke, sweet heart?” But all
this earned him was what he took for a look of contempt from beneath the
mask. “Suit yourself,” he lit one and took a long drag. “Ah, that's better,” he
sighed. And not for the first time he wondered what was the point of a dead
soul collector having nicotine withdrawal. He just didn't get. In fact there are
many things about being a collector that just didn’t make any sense. Take the
whole pain thing. Randall was dead. Wasn’t he? Shot to death in an alley
way in New York, circa nineteen twenty-five, he had the memories and the
scars to prove it. Christ, he’d even seen the crime scene photographs! Yet he
could still feel, not just pain but discomfort, cramp, the nicotine thing not to
mention hunger, although he was pretty sure he couldn’t starve to death, he
could feel everything. And it was, to be frank, a pain.
108
“When you are quite finish daydreaming, collector,” Ishrel said pulling
Randall back to the situation at hand. “What are you going to do about our
little problem?”
“Everything's under control,” Randall said in between drags on the
cigarette. “We might not be able to get to McCulloch just yet. But we can
get to his lawyer.”
“Thomas Whitaker? You know where he is?”
Randall dropped the remains of his cigarette and ground it into the
carpet with his heel, although this was technically a crime scene and would be
subject so a thorough forensic going over when the bodies were found, the
one thing collectors didn't need to worry about was DNA on a cigarette butt.
“No, Whitaker's protected too. So we'll just have to find him the old fashioned
way.”
“Humans?” Ishrel asked his voice as close to incredulous as it was
possible to get.
“Humans,” Randall said. “It shouldn't be too hard half the criminal
underworld is after these two. A word in the right ear will get me all the help
I need. I've arranged for a couple of babysitters to meet me up North. I just
made it clear that we were to be put at the top of the pecking order so that if
anyone does find them, they come straight to us first. Or else, as they say.”
Ishrel shook his masked head. “This is all too public for my liking.
There's far too much interaction with their kind as it is these days. It increases
the chance of exposure. Rumour of our existence is one thing, that's fine, it
creates fear. But when does rumour become fact? That's what worries me.”
Here we go again thought Randall, the precious rules. But the truth of
the matter was that he was looking forwards to the interaction with real
people, it was something he genuinely missed. Besides, compared to Ishrel,
he would welcome the company of the Pope himself, even if he was sending
him straight back to hell in a hand cart. “You worry too much Ishrel. Who
knows a little detective work might actually turn out to be fun.”
“Fun?” Ishrel squared up to Randall as best he could considering his
current diminutive stature. “This is a very serious matter, collector, just watch
how you conduct yourself with these, these mortals.” He jabbed a tiny finger
up at Randall but even with his arm at full stretch it barely reached his chest.
109
“And remember,” he warned. “I will never be too far away. I'm always
watching you, Randall. Always.”
The collector held his hands out in mock surrender, “Whatever you say,
sweetie.”
Ishrel made a fist and shook it up at Randall, he was about to speak again
but thought better off it, then turned away muttering something inaudible
under the plastic mask and walked straight through the wall and was gone,
leaving Randall alone with the late Mr. Mullan. Randall poked the corpse
again so it set off swinging. Yes company with a pulse would make a
refreshing change all right.


FIFTEEN
Considering the nature of his job, Father Nichols was used to stunned
silences. These usually occurred after the Vatican accounts department had
questioned his latest expenses claim. Or when he gave the Cardinal a blow by
blow account of his trip to the Chinese, Tibetan border where he had
witnessed the aftermath (alas always the aftermath) of a suspected collector’s
effect on a small Buddhist monastery there. He shuddered even now five
years later at that one. Fifteen monks all drown themselves quite willingly,
apparently according to the only survivor, (who had been dragged out of the
water before death took him, much to his distress), at the behest of a water
demon who had taken up residence in the monastery’s well.
Yes, Nichols believed in telling it like it is, regardless of how outlandish
the information was. He'd done just that with Larry, giving him a brief but
relevant history of the war against evil, a war he had told the old crook he was
now slap bang in the middle of.
Of course at first McCulloch had scoffed and complained, who wouldn't
when faced with the realisation you had in inadvertently double crossed the
Devil and as a result now had one of the deadliest collectors on your trail,
with an army of diabolical tricks and creatures up his sleeves. But as Nichols
continued a change slowly came over McCulloch, that cocky self-assured
110
façade began to slip more and more and with it the wise cracks and denials
died up altogether.
It had only taken fifteen minutes but he had seen Larry McCulloch's
whole belief system crumble down around him and he hadn't taken it well.
He had been sitting in that all too familiar stunned silence with the old crook
for a full five minutes and could almost hear the cogs turning in his head. As
Nichols watched him he wondered what the villain was thinking.
Bullshit, bullshit, bullshit!! The word bounced around Larry's skull like a
stuck record, repeating it over and over, but the word lost a little more validity
with every repetition. But it was all bullshit... Wasn't it? Sure he'd heard the
rumours, but he had dealt with these people before albeit indirectly so had
many others he could name. They were always two steps removed, a contact
from a contact somewhere away from the action, they paid the bills but
stayed in the periphery, which suited everyone. But there was still the
rumours, no one ever came right out and said it, that would be silly, wouldn't
it?
They were powerful for sure and clandestine to a fault, so what? But evil?
Come on, Larry didn't believe in all that crap. They were, at best some shady
cult, that's all. Besides, the Devil's money spends just as well as anybody
else's, right? Not that he had believed for a second in any of that. He was
always more than happy to take on a job for them. Which usually involved
transporting some lost soul or other (Strange turn of phrase that he suddenly
realised, apt but that's all it was, just a saying, didn't mean shit.) Transporting
some person here. Or dumping a body there.
Easy money. But the Polish gig had been a little different. Get six
scrawny looking unfortunates from Warsaw to London, no questions asked. It
had been too easy just to go through with it as planned. So he had done a
burn on them and the six Poles had never made it to the UK, he had sold
them on in France to God knows who, and they were never seen again.
Is what this was all about? Six missing illegal immigrants? Surely not.
He'd been warned not to do it, but if he was honest, the group’s reputation
had just made him want to scam them all the more.
“Bullshit.” He said plainly with a shake of the head.
111
“You know it's not, Larry.” Nichols replied. He looked down at the tea
tray on the table between them the contents of which was long cold by now.
“Huh, you would say that, padre. There can't be a God without a Devil,
right?” It was a good argument Larry knew but didn't change a damn thing.
“Believe what you like, Larry,” Nichols said almost coldly. “In the end it
doesn't really matter. But like it or not, dark forces are at work in the world.
And the people you ripped off in Poland? They are amongst the darkest.” He
fixed McCulloch with his best hard stare. “And they want you, Larry in the
most terrible of ways.”
There was a time and not that long ago, when Larry would have laughed
in the priest’s face. Dark forces? Bollocks. But not now, the crushing sense of
the reality of his situation sucked any bravado he had had left right out of
him. So all he could manage as a riposte was, “Yeah? Well they can just get
in line with every fucker else.”
It was only now that Larry realised he and the priest were alone, he
hadn't even noticed Peroni leave or that arse hole Lewis come in with the tea.
He wondered if they were all in the kitchen along with the kid Jeff having a
good laugh as Larry's life disappeared down the toilet. The priest leant
forwards with a frown that seemed permanently etched on his face.
“That's just it. There isn't anyone else after you, not any more. A month
ago every low life and crooked politician in Europe wanted you dead. But
these people have warned everyone off. No matter how powerful they might
be, they've been told in no uncertain terms to leave you alone. Now that has
to tell you something about whom has that kind of power.” Nichols, let the
statement hang heavy in the air and for want of something better to do while
it did, he poured himself a tepid cup of tea.
Larry watched him pour and take a sip of tea, which apparently judging
by the look on his face didn't taste quite as bad as the thought it might. Larry
looked down at his own cup which he hadn't touched. He could see the thin
layer of skin on top caused by the milk turning cold which was testament to
how long it had been standing there.
An enemy even more powerful than a crooked government politician?
Once upon a time Larry would have taken no small amount of pride in that.
“All you have is us,” Nichols said breaking the silence.
112
Hadn't Lewis said something similar? 'All you have is us, and how sad is
that?'
“I understand they call us the God squad, so I hear.” Nichols added
before taking another sip. “You know I think I could get used to cold tea. I
mainly work out of the Vatican, it's all coffee over there.”
“The God squad.” Larry said trying the phrase on for size, it didn't sit well
at all, even with all this talk of demons and Vatican coffee.
Nichols put down his cup. “We are the light against the darkness that is
stalking you.”
Larry looked at Nichols. Yes he wasn't dreaming, the priest had actually
just said that with a straight face. “Fuck. You really expect me to buy into all
this good and evil bollocks?” He sat back on the sofa which reminded him
how much he was sweating as his wet shirt felt icy cold on his back which
made him shudder.
Nichols made a dismissive gesture. “Like I said, I really don't care if you
believe me or not. The facts are quite plain without any help from me.” He
held up his index finger. “One, the police can't help you, they called us in.
That's a whole country’s police force who can't do anything.” He held up a
second finger, “Two, your underworld gangster mates won't help you. And
three,” he waved his three fingers at Larry. “You sure as hell can't help
yourself.” He made a fist then after holding it up for a moment tapped it
against his chest. “So that leaves only us. The God squad. But to be honest,
I'm not even sure we will be able to do anything if Randall gets to you.”
“Him again,” Larry said. “The soul collector. And he's after my soul.”
“That's one word for it, yes. Your soul. That little spark of light that's in
all of us, even you, Larry. That thing that makes us human. But call it what
you will, Randall is coming for you, and if he gets his hands on you, there will
quite literally be hell to pay.”
The logical part of Larry's brain wanted to make him laugh right in the
priest’s face. Soul collectors? Come on, have a word with yourself! It was all
bullshit, whom ever was after him, powerful or not, wasn't some mysterious
supernatural force out for his immortal soul, that was just plain ludicrous.
They were just gangsters with a taste for the theatrical. His heart however told
him different. He was in a world of shit with the Devil’s hit man after his arse.
113
But in the end did it really matter? Dead without a soul or dead with it he
would still be just that, dead.
No hope or Bob Hope.
And Bob Hope's dead.
Well at least this bunch had guns, and whatever their reasons for
protecting him, they were all he had left. The God squad. It was
embarrassing really.
Larry fixed the priest with a firm, steady gaze. “Okay, padre. But I draw
the fucking line at prayer meetings.”
Nichols beamed. “Me too, terribly boring things. You're making the
right decision, Larry. We will do everything in our power to help you, even if
it means our lives. That's a promise.”
He held out his hand.
“All of you?” Larry asked.
“All of us.”
“Even Lewis?”
“Ha! Yes Larry, even Lewis.”
If there was one thing Larry McCulloch knew it was how to tell a liar. And
this guy may be many things, a religious nut for one, but he was telling the
stone cold truth. Even that clown Lewis would die for him. That alone was
worth sticking around to see.
Larry took the priest’s hand and shook it firmly. Deal. “So what happens
now?” Larry asked.
“We wait.” Nichols replied then got to his feet and called through into
the next room. “Ania, Lewis, Jeff, can you all come in here please?”
Larry stood as the three of them entered the room.
“Larry has agreed to let us help him.”
Much to Larry surprise all three, even Lewis looked genuinely please at
the news. Of all the things that had happened today thought Larry. That was
definitely the most surreal.
114
Peroni stepped forwards and took Larry’s hand in both of hers and shook
it vigorously. “Larry, that's great news.”
The kid Jeff was next to shake his hand. “We won't let you down, Larry.”
Larry looked across at Lewis who was looking down at his feet and
thought; If he hugs me, devil or no devil, I'm out of here. But Lewis just looked
up and gave half a smile and a nod.
“Guess you're brighter than I thought, Larry,” he said but made no move
to shake his hand or, thank Christ, hug him. It was refreshingly honest and
the closest he would ever come to liking the little shit.
“Splendid,” Nichols said with a clap of the hands. “Now, let's get some
fresh tea, it's about time I gave you all a crash course in what I know about
our friend Randall and his little play mates.”


SIXTEEN
Charlie Walker stood at the window of his Father’s private hospital room
and looked through at the fragile old man sleeping inside. Even though it
had been five days since his last visit, Charlie’s first reaction upon seeing his
Father asleep was to turn around and leave. He’d done it before, last week,
telling himself it was best to let the old man sleep, to preserve his strength.
But the truth was he hated coming to this place and seeing him like this, so
weak, so vulnerable. The truth was Charlie Walker was a coward and he knew
that when his Father was finally gone, he would deeply regret times like these
no matter how many times he told himself it was for his Father’s own good.
Charles Walker senior had been a huge bear of a man and although
Charlie himself had never seen any evidence of it, had a reputation as a hard
man. He was the polar opposite to Harry Lyne, the muscle to Lyne’s brains
and that was why they had made such a good team in the old days. But that
was before the cancer had kicked the shit out of him, now even Charlie,
skinny bugger that he was, could pick up his old man without so much as a
grunt of effort.
115
It had all happened so fast, it seemed like only yesterday that his Dad
was still at the heart of things. Even though Lyne had forced him to retire he
just couldn’t keep away from the clubs, so much so that as Charlie had moved
up in the business he had to keep one step ahead of him, just in case he
bumped into his Dad, while on a job for uncle Harry, which would have
resulted in his immediate painful death. Because Charles Walker senior had
never wanted that life for his children and everyone knew it.
But just six short months later he was a shadow of his former self, just a
bag of bones now. Charlie's Dad was only sixty-five but he looked twenty
years older. Seeing him laid there with his breathing so shallow you could
hardly make out the rise and fall of his chest. Deep down Charlie wished the
old man could just slip away, to be with his mother who had died, again of
cancer, when he and his sister were just twelve.
The old man stirred and opened his eyes he smiled weakly seeing his son
standing outside and motioned for him to come in. Charlie opened the door
and was immediately hit by a wave of stifling heat. “Christ!” He exclaimed.
“Warm enough for you, Pops?”
“Come in, mate. How long have you been lurking around out there?”
Charlie picked up a chair and put it down by his Father’s bed and took a
seat. “Didn’t want to wake you. Dad it’s boiling in here, you want to get them
to turn the heating down.”
His Father struggled to sit up, Charlie moved to help him but he shooed
him away with a wave of his hand. “This is how I like it,” he said trying to get
comfy. “Can’t seem to get warm these days, guess I don’t have as much meat
on me as I used to, eh?” He winced at the effort of sitting up which made
Charlie cringe, he desperately wanted to help him, but knew he wouldn’t be
thanked for it. Finally he seemed to get comfortable.
“Can’t stay too long, Dad,” Charlie lied. “Just popped in to make sure
you’re alright.”
“Oh, I’m alright,” he gestured to a plastic jug on the bedside table. “Pour
us a glass of water would you Charlie? So they’re keeping you busy at work
then, huh?”
He poured him a glass and handed it over. “Eh? Oh, yeah,” Charlie
replied.
116
“Suppose those houses won’t sell themselves.”
Charlie’s heart sank. The old lie raising its ugly head again. Even though
he was knee deep in the business and slowly moving up the food chain there
his Dad still believed he was an estate agent. Charlie suddenly had the urge
to tell his Father everything, just blurt it all out and damn the consequences.
But checked himself as he always did, he knew this wasn’t the right time, it
never was these days. When he’s better he told himself. He’d been saying
that for six months now. So simply answered. “Yeah, something like that.”
His Father sipped the water. “Aahh, that’s better. Could do with a pint
though,” and winked at him.
“Yeah. So what did the doctors say? Do they think you’ll need another
op or not?” Charlie asked.
His Father shrugged. “Christ knows! They’ve done a load more tests,
taken more blood. I’m surprised I’ve got any left, can’t think what they do with
it all.”
“I think they sell it,” Charlie said, trying to keep his voice as light as he
could.
“Huh,” his Father grunted. “Don’t think they’ll get much for mine.”
He studied Charlie for a moment, the way he always used to. Although
his body had betrayed him of late, Charlie could see he still had those same
piercing green eyes, thankfully still so full of life. The thought lifted his spirits
a little.
“You look a little tired, Charlie, are you eating alright?” His Dad said after
a moment.
This made Charlie smile, yep, his old Dad was in there somewhere. “Dad,
I’m twenty-one!” He replied. “I can look after myself. Besides, you should be
concentrating on getting yourself fit and not worrying about me.”
His Father nodded and seemed to drift off, lost in thought and his
expression turned solemn. There was a long pause until Charlie finally said.
“Dad, you alright?”
“Look,” His Father said a little awkwardly, “Charlie I know you’re busy,” he
glanced around the room as if looking for inspiration. “It’s just that... I really
need to talk to you, properly, I mean.”
117
Charlie lent on the bed, he thought about taking his Father’s hand, but
dismissed the idea. “Course, I’ve got time Dad, as much as you need.”
He seemed relieved to hear it. “Good, good lad... I’ve er, I’ve already
spoken to your sister. I know I’m being silly, but I just wanted to tell you...” He
exhaled, frustrated at his lack of articulation. “For Christ sake, I’m useless at
this type of thing. Your Mother was always the emotional one, God rest her
soul.”
He always said that, Charlie remembered, whenever he mentioned his
Mother. God rest her soul. Even though he wasn’t even remotely religious.
She had been the churchgoer. Always praying for his Dad’s soul. ‘After all he
needs all the help he can get’! She would joke.
Seeing his Father’s discomfort Charlie took hold of his hand without
realising it. It was only when his Father squeezed it tightly that he noticed
he’d done it. “Dad, what’s wrong?” Charlie felt a sudden rush of emotion, it
had crept up on him and he had to fight it back, otherwise he knew he would
lose it altogether.
Charlie got to his feet and his Father released the grip he had on his
hand. Charlie hadn’t done it to pull away from his Father just break the spell
and thankfully it had the desired effect. The old man smiled knowingly, he
knew like Charlie they were both as bad as each other; Northern males, they’d
rather fight than hug.
“Sit down mate,” he said to Charlie nodding towards the chair and
Charlie sat back down. “Look, all I wanted to say is just how, how proud I am
of you. You and your sister. It can’t have been easy with me either away or
banged up in prison when you were growing up. I always worried, so did
your Mother, God rest her soul, about how you would both turn out.” Charlie
watched as he took another long drink of water. “I tried my best to be a good
Dad, but it was the life I was born into, I didn’t know anything else. It sounds
lame, saying it out loud, and I’m not trying to make excuses for all the times I
wasn’t around...”
“Hey, come on!” Charlie cut him off, “you were a great Dad. We never
wanted for anything. I know you’ve done stuff, in the past, but we still knew
right from wrong. And let’s just say your friends were more ‘colourful’ than
the other kids parents, that’s all. Tell you what thought, we were never picked
on at school, that’s for sure.”
118
His Father grinned, it was the first time in weeks he’d seen that old
mischievous smile and it looked good on him. “Don’t get me wrong,” he
Father said. “Harry Lyne’s been good to me down the years, always looked
after your Mum and you kids when I was inside, and you too after she passed.
And like I said I make no excuses for the path in life I took. It’s just...”
Charlie suddenly felt sick he knew exactly what he was going to say.
“It’s just,” he continued. “I always wanted better for you and Kate. And
seeing how well you’re both doing. Kate, about to finish her degree soon.
And you? Never thought you’d end up as an estate agent.”
Charlie had to look away, that particular running gag with the lads now
made him feel utterly ashamed. Even though the room was boiling hot he
felt suddenly cold. “Dad, listen,” his voice cracked with emotion, he could feel
his bottom lip trembling uncontrollably like he was some kid about to confess
to shoplifting or something equally as lame.
“Charlie,” his Father squeezed his forearm. “Charlie, look at me, son.”
Charlie gritted his teeth and looked back into his Father’s face. He was crying
and Charlie had never ever seen him cry before, not even when his Mother
had died. He felt as if the air had been sucked right out of his lungs.
“You have no idea how proud I am of you,” his Father said softly. “You
and Kate, and I know she never got to tell you herself, but I know how proud
your Mum would have been too... God rest her soul. She never got the
chance, so I just had to before...”
Charlie fair leapt up and leaning over the bed hugged his Father tightly
which surprised them both, his eyes welled then he just let the tears come.
“We always knew Dad. Now come on, enough of this bollocks, you’ll be up
and about in no time, making everyone’s life a misery again.”
His Father gently patted him on the back and after a long moment gently
pushed Charlie away so he could take a good look at him, he smiled warmly,
more warmly than Charlie could ever remember him doing before and it felt
good to see it. “Yeah, I know. But I’m glad I got to say it.” A look of mischief
flashed behind his eyes. “Mind you, tell any other bugger about this and
you’d better pray I don’t get out of here!”
It was just a joke but it made Charlie’s heart skip just the same.
119
“Now come on, give us a kiss you big girl’s blouse and bugger off so I
can get some rest.”
Charlie laughed and got to his feet shaking his head in mock disbelief.
“It’s the twenty first century Dad, men cry all the time now, I’m sure the boys
at the club won’t think any less of you when I tell them.”
His Father raised his fist and shook it, Charlie nodded. He leant over and
kissed him on the forehead then turned to leave.
As he reached the doorway he paused for a second before leaving and
turned to look at his Father once more who was wiping his eyes with the back
of his hand. “I love you, Dad.” Then turned and walked off down the corridor.

Half way down he heard his Dad shout. “Gay!” Which raised a smile. It
was the first time he had ever told his Father he loved him, it was the truth,
and they both knew it, even if it had to end in some nonchalant comment.
And Charlie Walker was damn glad he had finally said it.
Bill Fraker watched as Charlie came walking out of the hospital entrance
and jogged over to where he was parked. He felt a pang of sorrow for the
kid, his Dad was a good man and it was a crying shame what had happened
to him. But as he approached the car, Fraker had to admit Charlie looked a
hell of a lot better coming out than he had going in. Charlie got in and Fraker
pulled the car away. “So, how is the old bastard?” Asked Fraker.
Charlie nodded a little and Fraker thought he saw the faint hint of a
smile. “Yeah good, well you know.” The smile if it had even been there faded.
“He still thinks I’m a fucking estate agent.”
“It’s the best way, mate.”
“Nearly told him,” said Charlie staring out of the side window.
“Well bloody don’t Charlie. It’s better all round,” advised Fraker.
“Yeah, suppose. So where to now?”
Fraker had gotten the call while Charlie was inside, it was action stations.
“The airport,” he said. “The Yank has arrived.”

SEVENTEEN
120
Airports are excellent places to people watch. Not only that but if you
are tuned in enough to be able to pick out the plethora of emotions they give
off, you can almost drown in the intoxicating mix of pure raw feeling these
places collect over the years. It was the same for any place people
congregated in numbers, they'd leave it behind them like a wake, but there
was something about airports that made the sensation stronger still, maybe it
was because no matter where you looked there is always some drama being
playing out, a tearful reunion here, an emotional farewell there, combined
with the more mundane, a bored business man making his tenth trip this year
to some Eastern European city most people have never heard of, or the poor
sap who works behind the counter of WH Smiths, who despite working in an
airport has never actually flown in his life.
The air is electric with second hand humanity in places like these. And as
such they are a great place to soak it all up if you have all but none left of
your own.
Randall could feel it in the air like static before a thunderstorm, it made
him feel both exhilarated and depressed all at the same time. To be
surrounded with so much life made him remember just how little he had left.
He knew it would linger on his clothes for days after like second hand smoke
used to back in the days when you could kill yourself slowly with cigarettes in
public places without feeling like a social pariah.
He closed his eyes and tried to tune out the cacophony of voices around
him and instead concentrated on the fragrant aroma drifting up from the cup
of Earl grey tea sitting on the table in front of him. Like so many things lost in
the darkness of his creation as a collector he had somehow picked up an
almost addictive taste for the drink. Which before emerging from the big
sleep he hadn't even heard of let alone tasted. Just another in a long line of
unanswered questions resurrection brought.
Randall took a sip of tea and looked around the airports arrivals lounge.
His flight had been miraculously early so he had taken the time to feed his
addiction and watch the world he could never fully be a part of again go
about its daily business around him before his contacts arrived to whisk him
away in search of Larry McCulloch.
He felt invisible at times like these, just an observer like Ishrel and the
longer he existed the more bitter it made him. He was an outcast, which
121
made it easy, even at times a pleasure to do his job but still it seemed as if all
this humanity, taken so much for granted by those who possessed it, was
mocking his soulless existence.
These were dangerous times for a collector, in the company of normal
folks with nothing to do but think, to dwell on things. If he let himself he
knew it would be all too easy just to snap and let loose such power that
would kill everyone in the place, he smiled to himself as he imagined Ishrel’s
apoplectic reaction to half a dozen demons tearing up an airport in broad
daylight. It would almost be worth the shit storm he would reap just to see
the look on the demon’s face.
The thought soothed him a little and he took another sip of tea and
savoured the flavour. He exhaled slowly and felt the all too familiar weight on
his shoulders again. The big question which gnawed on his subconscious
from time to time reared its ugly head again. Mostly Randall loved being a
collector, when he didn't think things through too much. Immortality, power
to burn, the job had its many perks. But surrounded by all this life, the big
question couldn't be ignored.
What was so special about me?
It was a reasonable question, and it was one Randall had asked himself
countless times over the years since his rebirth as a collector of souls. Then
he had time on his hands, like now, he would scour his past, to that time
before Succubus’ and annoying observer demons when he was alive and
kicking and looking out for number one on the trash filled streets of New
York, Christ over ninety years ago now. Trying to find that forgotten moment
when they notice him.
What had the powers that pulled him back from the jaws of death and
set him on this path of mayhem and destruction seen in him? What had
made him different from those millions of other lowlifes kicking around the
city back then? He was bright, sure and more than a little devious, but
Randall had been strictly small time and no one, even his enemies would have
called him cruel, he had never even killed anyone for Christ sake. Nothing he
had done would surely have warranted such demonic attention.
Of course he had asked Ishrel, but the little shit wouldn't have told him,
even if he knew (and increasingly it was clear he did not). The demon made
no attempt to cover his jealously of him, of his echo of humanity, and
122
obviously felt a mere human (albeit a dead dark magic wielding soul stealing
one) was unworthy of having such power bestowed on it.
But there must have been something, some spark of, for want of a better
word, evil in him that had marked him as a prime candidate for immortality
and mischief making. But what?
Maybe when all this was over and Randall was finally at rest he would ask
the Devil just that when he met him. That and spit in his eye, not because he
hated what he was, far from it, but just for the hell of it. That and make him
look like a school girl just like Ishrel. Yes that would be a fitting end to this
journey.
The thought made Randall smile, he supposed this was as close as a soul
collector could get to sacrilege and if sacrilege can't raise a smile what can?
“Erm, excuse me?”
Randall looked up to see a blond haired young man in an expensive
looking suit standing over his shoulder, the collector turned around. But
didn't speak.
“Erm,” the kid said again a little nervously, “Sorry to bother you, but are
you, Mister Randall?”
“Why yes I am.” Randall replied and stood up offering his hand.
The kid took it tentatively and shook it. “I'm, Charlie, Charlie Walker,
Mister Lyne sent me and my associate to meet you, look after you while your
here?”
“Pleased to meet you, Charlie Walker, Randall said. Charlie moved to
pick up Randall's suitcase but Randall picked it up first. “I got it, thanks.”
“Oh. Oh sorry, of course.” Charlie said apologetically and just stood there
looking at the American as if for instructions.
“Well?” Randall asked after a suitably uncomfortable silence. “Shall we?”
He gestured to the door but the kid hesitated. “Or we could just stand
around here all day.”
This snapped Charlie out of it and he grimaced embarrassed. “Oh, Christ,
yes sorry.” He said.
123
“It's okay,” Randall wasn't sure if the kid was just nervous or if he was
short of a few cards. Time would tell. “After you.”
Charlie led the way through the arrivals lounge and over to the entrance
doors, Randall gave a final look around the place as they left. It was a nice
enough place, but still a few dozen demons flying around the place reaping
havoc wouldn't go a miss. Charlie grimaced and for a second Randall thought
he'd actually just said that out loud, but as they reached the doors the young
man pointed to the weather outside.
“Just started snowing as we arrived,” Charlie said with disgust and
buttoned up is coat. “Better wrap up sir, you're in the north now.” The
automatic doors opened and they were hit by an icy blast, Charlie let out an
“Oofh!” And headed outside as if into the Arctic.
He didn't know why but Randall had grown to love the snow since
coming back, maybe because somewhere deep in his subconscious it was
about as far away from the supposed fires of hell as you could get in normal
everyday life here on earth. Or maybe, he just liked snow now, like Earl grey
tea. Just another knot he would never untie in the puzzle that was his life
now. He made a mental note to ask the Devil when he finally met him/it/her.
'What's with the whole snow and Earl grey thing, fallen one? And by the
way, love the dress.”


EIGHTEEN
You can tell a lot about a person by the way they carry themselves, often
you can tell volumes about someone from their body language without them
having to say a word. Bill Fraker lent against the car and watched as Charlie
emerged from the airport with the yank. It had just started to snow again
which made Charlie grimaced and held his hands above his head in a vain
attempt to shield himself from the wintry shower. But the yank, Mister
Randall the guy’s name was, just tilted his face up and let the snow fall on it
as they walked towards him. He even smiled seeing Charlie's reaction to the
weather. He didn't seem to mind the cold at all.
124
The man looked at ease and obviously didn't feel the need to exert any
kind if power trip over anyone as he was carrying his own suitcase. Fraker
had made sure Charlie knew to offer to carry it but the man must have
declined which was a good sign in Fraker's book. The last thing he needed
was one power mad crazy hit man lording it over him, they were here to help
not to serve. Although it could be because he kept his guns in the case, that
option was much less comforting.
“Mister Randall, this is Bill, Bill Fraker.” Charlie said eyeing the sky in
disgust as they reached the car.
The yank gave Fraker a warm smile and shook his hand. Firm grip, not
too tight thought Fraker, still trying to weigh up the man. And none of that,
covering your hand with the other in a subconscious show of authority
bullshit you get sometimes.
“Pleased to meet you, Mister Fraker,” said Randall.
“Mister Fraker was my Father's name. Please, call me Bill.” Fraker
nodded over to the back of the car and both men walked around to the boot
which Fraker had already popped.
“Bill it is then,” Randall said and put his suitcase inside.
“Shall we?” Fraker closed the boot and opened the BMW's back door.
“Sounds good,” Randall gestured to the weather as the three men got in.
Randall in the back, Fraker and Walker in the front.
“Say,” Randall continued as Fraker fired up the engine and glided away
from the kerb. “Does it always snow up here?”
“Only when it's not raining,” Charlie said craning his neck around.
“Welcome to Yorkshire. So,” he added, “where are you from in the states,
Mister Randall?”
Fraker winced, as if a hit man was going to answer that, he despaired at
that boy sometimes. They had, had the talk on the drive over here. Don't ask
any idiotic questions, keep things polite but professional. The yank is here to
do a job, not to make friends. And don't, whatever you do, ask to see the
guy’s gun! Well don't ask any idiot questions was already out of the window,
only a matter of time before he asks about the gun or worse how many
people he had 'whacked' this week.
125
“Please, drop the Mister,” Randall said skilfully avoiding the question
much to Fraker's relief. “It's just plain Randall.”
Fraker pulled the car onto the A46 and headed towards Leeds. He hated
driving at the best of times, especially with a VIP in the back, it always made
him feel like he was taking his driving test all over again. But as the other
alternative was letting Charlie drive, he had no choice. He flicked the window
wipers on double speed, the weather was gradually taking a turn for the
worse and he was thankful they were in the BMW, this thing could drive
through the Arctic without so much as a skid.
They drove on in silence for a while, Fraker had the urge to turn on the
radio to break the awkwardness, but the yank seemed happy enough
watching the world go by and Charlie was tapping his knees to some
imaginary dance track in his head. Still, Fraker thought he should at least try
to make conversation.
“We've booked a couple of rooms at the Queen’s hotel, in Leeds. It's a
decent place but not too over the top. We thought it best to keep things low
key.” Fraker said and eased passed a slow moving Volkswagen. He caught a
glimpse of the yank in the rear view mirror who nodded.
“Sounds like I'm in good hands,” he said. “Any word on the elusive
Mister McCulloch yet?”
Fraker shook his head. “Not so far. To be honest, we've got everyone
concentrating on finding his Lawyer, a guy named Tommy Whitaker.”
The yank seemed to recognise the name. “Good,” he said, his tone laid
back. “Whitaker's the key. He's weak, afraid. McCulloch will be too well
hidden of now. But there's no rush, if you can find Tommy Whitaker, It's just a
hop skip and a jump to McCulloch.”
“So,” said Charlie staring absently out of the windscreen. “McCulloch's in
deep shit, eh?”
Fraker bit his bottom lip and almost punched Charlie in the side of the
head, he made a mental note to save it for later when they were alone. He
glanced in the rear view mirror again to see the Yank was actually smiling.
“Believe me, Charlie, he should wish he was in deep shit,” he said.
“Words cannot express the trouble that man is in.”
126
“Y'know, his nick name is Lucky?” Charlie said with a snort.
“If he gets out of this one,” Randall said leaning back in his seat, “you can
stick 'unbelievably' in front of that.”
The three of them laughed out loud. Fraker let out a relieved breath, this
guy seemed all right, things might just turn out to be okay after all. A few
days in a hotel, all expenses paid, he found himself starting to warm to the
idea. But that was still tempered with the fact that this charming American
was a hired killer and could quite easily get them all killed or banged up for
life. Still, he mused, this was better than scaring the shit out of club owners at
three in the morning with the kneecap routine.
“How was your flight?” Fraker asked.
“Mercifully short,” Randall replied. “Where did you say we were
heading?”
“City called Leeds, don't know if you've heard of it.”
“Leeds, sure.” Answered Randall.
“Used to have one hell of a football team once,” Fraker lamented, then
added, “That's our football, not yours.”
“Yeah, I figured.”
Next to Fraker, Charlie shuddered and had a sour look on his face. “I
hate flying me,” he said with a frown.
Fraker's eyes shot skyward. “Oh, here we go. I don't think Randall is
interested in your fear of flying, Charlie.”
“No, that's Okay,” Randall said leaning forwards. “Don't like planes, eh
Charlie?”
Charlie's eyes narrowed as if he was recalling some past aviation horror,
which Fraker knew was bollocks, this irrational fear of his was all classic
Charlie Walker. Fraker returned his eyes to the road, they would soon be
approaching the infamous 'Leeds loop' road system, which some sadistic city
planner had put in place in a supposed attempt to help motorist negotiate
around the city centre and get easy access to the motorways and city centre
train station, where unfortunately the Queen’s hotel was slap bang next to.
127
Fraker had often mused this same city planner had to be a dedicated car
hating cyclist.
“Yeah, I hate flying me,” Charlie lamented. “I much prefer boats. I mean,
you've never heard of a boat crashing into a mountain, have you?”
“This is true,” Randall had to admit.
“Yeah,” said Fraker for arguments sake. “But I've also never heard of a
plane sinking, either.” He spotted a cyclist up a head and had to fight the
urge not to knock him off, besides cycling in this weather was punishment
enough.
“This is also true,” Randall said.
“Yeah,” said Charlie. “Except for that film. Oh, what was it called?” He
screwed his face up trying to remember the lost cinematic gem. “Oh yeah! It
was one of those airport flicks from the seventies. Airport seventy eight, 'this
time it sinks'.”
“Sinks or stinks?” Fraker asked.
“Have to say, I didn't catch that one,” Randall said.
“Nar, me neither,” Charlie said. “Well, I mean, you wouldn't would you?
Not with title like that!”
Wow, thought Randall settling back in his seat, Ishrel would hate these
two, which made him like them all the more. They were everything the demon
hated about humanity, something the demon would never have, but also he
had to admit all Randall had lost. Though unlike the airport, Randall felt at
ease around these guys and in just the space of a few short minutes he knew
he'd made the right decision enlisting their help, apart from the practicalities
of the situation, which made it a sound tactical move, sometimes mortal
people could have their uses, they could be used, manipulated against one
another. But also, as with Charlie Walker and Bill Fraker, they could be fun to
be around in small numbers. And in the end wasn't being evil supposed to be
fun? Somehow he'd forgotten that along the way.
He watched the back of Fraker's head as he shook it in obvious disbelief
at his partner.
“You'll have to forgive Charlie, Randall,” he said. “He used to deliberately
bang his head in the door when he was a child.”
128
Randall laughed out loud for the second time in five minutes, then
realised he couldn't actually remember the last time he had laughed properly
at all. Ishrel was never one for witty quips.
He nearly died (again), when Charlie said with an amazingly straight face,
“Still do.”
Fraker cursed under his breath and the car swerved ever so slightly.
“Sorry,” he said. “Fucking road system.”
“And nothing at all to do with your driving, William?” Charlie said. He
easily dodged as Fraker made a half-hearted attempt to clip him around the
head. “Jesus, both hands on the wheel! Your driving's bad enough as it is.”
He turned and grinned at Randall.
“I take it this isn't your usual line of work. Babysitting Americans?”
Randall asked.
“Yeah, sorry. I know where babbling a bit. Just a bit nervous that's all.”
Fraker said. “To be honest, we don't usually get involved with this type of
thing.” He cursed himself then added quickly. “Erm, not that we know what
this type of thing is, you understand.” He glanced in the rear view mirror and
was relieved to see Randall smiling back at him.
“Don't sweat it,” Randall said. “You'll do just fine. And believe me you
two make a refreshing change to the type of company I normally keep.
You're quite the double act.”
“You should catch our kneecap routine,” Charlie said proudly.
“But for Christ sake don't get him started on coffee!” Fraker said.
“I'll bare that in mind,” Randall said. “So, what do you do when you're not
babysitting?”
Fraker thought for a moment. “I suppose you could say we're in
collections.”
This made Randall smile. “That's funny, so am I.”

NINETEEN
129
Apparently, some fuckwit once wrote; it is always darkest just before the
dawn. Well if that was the case then pretty damn soon there was going to be
the brightest dawn the world had ever seen.
But that day was not today. For the second time in just a few short days,
Larry McCulloch wanted to burst into tears. Just let it all out, either that or
burst out laughing at the absurdity of it all. Something, once upon a time he
would have found it quite easy to do, what with all this talk of demons and
devils. Of soul collectors after Larry's hide because he had double crossed the
Devil’s own. Laughable, were it not for the fact that those around him, all
grownups no less believed every single surreal word of it.
Larry was back in the dubious sanctuary of his room, he sat on his bed as
he scrolled through his phones address book in an increasingly vain attempt
to find somebody, anybody he could call to get him out of this river of shit he
was drowning in. He had tried half a dozen numbers already, old cronies of
his he had relied on in the past, but of those only one had actually deigned to
answer (damn call ID's)once they knew it was him on the other end. And that
one, Henry Ritter had just screamed abuse down the phone at him and told
him in no uncertain terms that he was a dead man walking. Then added,
'worse' than dead.
That again. What in Christ’s name could be 'worse' than dead? If
anything Larry was beginning to think that he might be better off out of it all
together, just wrestle a gun off Lewis or the kid Jeff and blow his sorry brains
out and let that be an end to it. Then if all this was true he could meet the
Devil head on and tell him to go fuck himself. Larry made his hand into the
shape of a gun and cocked his thumb back and put his fingers in his mouth
and 'pulled the trigger’. Blam, that's all she wrote, thank you and good night.
Not much of a legacy, blowing your brains out all over the cheap wallpaper
but at least it would be quick and at least he would find out what, if anything
was waiting for him on the other side.
“Bollocks to it,” Larry said out loud, suicide just wasn't in his nature; he
was many things but he sure as shit wasn't a quitter. No, come what may he
was going to see this through until the bitter end (and he had the feeling it
would be just that, bitter.)
130
He tossed the phone on the bed, the only number he hadn't tried today
was Tommy Whitaker's and he was too sober even to think about calling that
nutter.
He turned hearing a tap on the door. “Go away,” he said, the last thing
he needed right now was Lewis or the priest.
“Larry, it's me, Jeff.” The voice sounded miles away through the closed
door.
“I come bearing gifts,” he added.
Larry let out a weary sign and dragged himself up and over to the door, it
was only now he realized the room was in near total darkness, he checked his
watch, Christ 8:30 pm. He flicked on the light switch and leaned against the
door but didn't move to open it.
“Define gifts,” he said to the wood.
“Well, gift to be precise, come Larry, open the door, eh, you've been up
here for hours. Oh, and let's just say this gift is twelve years old.”
Now that got Larry attention. He opened the door a few inches and a
bottle of whiskey appeared through the gap, so Larry opened it further and
stepped back to let Jeff enter until he was standing in the doorway, his fresh
faced features at odds with the bottle of whiskey he was flaunting.
“So, can I come in?” Jeff asked.
Larry took the bottle and gestured for Jeff to come in. “As long as you
don't interfere with my drinking,” he said.
“Okay, deal,” Jeff laughed and came inside.
“And definitely no preaching,” Larry added.
“That's Father Nichols’ territory not mine, I'm a mere minion. I just
thought you looked like you could probably do with a drink after the day
you've had.”
“Huh, no shit,” Larry said and uncorked the bottle, he scooped up his
glass and poured himself a generous measure before putting the bottle on
the bedside table.
“Just keep it to yourself though, Larry. Father Nichols is worried about
your drinking as it is.” Jeff said.
131
“Looking after my liver as well as my soul, eh?” Larry said which raised a
smile from the kid.
“Something like that.”
Larry raised the glass and took a sip, damn it was good stuff, no cheap
super market own brands here. The kid must have spent thirty quid on it.
Larry couldn't help but muse if he could claim it back on expenses with the
Vatican. Larry took another sip and studied Jeff. “So what's your story, kid?”
He asked.
Jeff frowned. “Story?”
“Yeah, I get Nichols and even Peroni, they're Vatican soldiers, if you
believe in all this. They want to save my soul, and catch the bogey man in the
process no doubt. I definitely get Lewis, he's a copper through and through
and probably fell in with these religious types because he gets to carry a gun.
But you?” He made a point of looking the young man up and down which
made him squirm somewhat. “You don't seem like the religious type to me,“
he gestured to the bottle as evidence. “Besides what are you, eighteen?”
“I'm twenty four,” Jeff said with the weariness of someone who had been
cursed with youthful looks all his adult life and the lack of credibility it
inevitably brought.
Larry raised an eyebrow just to goad him. “No, really,” Jeff protested.
“And you really believe in this heaven and hell shit the padre is
spouting?”
“Yes Larry, yes I do.” Jeff answered with conviction.
“You've seen any evidence of it?” Larry asked and drained his glass which
brought with it that familiar warm sensation you get from good whiskey and
it felt damn fine.
The kid shook his head and his cheeks flushed slightly. “Not as such, no.”
He said. “But I have faith in Father Nichols and his team back at the Vatican.”
This made Larry raise is eyebrows again.
“No, really, I do. I may not have seen any of this first hand, but I've seen
the Vatican archives. They're quite an eye opener. Then we join we get an
intensive crash course.”
132
“So,” Larry asked. “How did they get you?”
“I was training to be a priest. It’s a calling I have felt ever since I can
remember. Then I was approached whilst at the seminary.” Jeff looked away
for a moment, seemingly embarrassed. Then we added with genuine
humility; “They said they saw something in me, something special. So I joined
the team as it were. They apparently call us the God squad on the other side.”
“Huh,” Larry snorted. “Religious mumbo jumbo, all of it.” He motioned
to Jeff's Pistol in the holster under his jacket. “That's what I believe in kid. I'd
put my faith in that over Jesus H Christ any day.”
He was surprised that the comment seemed to hurt Jeff, and with it came
even more surprise at himself that he instantly regretted it. The kid was an
easy target, he'd spotted that the moment they had met. He was young
(twenty four, really? The poor sap was doomed to be ID checked at night
clubs until he was at least thirty, if he lived that long.) And impressionable,
but now he saw, that even for all Larry's cynicism, the lad had a heart of gold.
The whiskey proved that, he was making a genuine attempt to connect with
him.
Regardless of what Larry believed, Jeff had sworn to protect him, and
with his young life if need be. But not for profit, which Larry would have felt
far more comfortable with. But with faith in what he was doing.
Larry swiped up the bottle and took a swig straight out of it, and it was
Jeff's turn to raise an eyebrow. Christ Larry silently cursed, this situation was
messed up. What was happening to him? He almost felt like apologizing to
the kid. Now he knew he was at a low ebb.
He tried to shake of the feeling and just held up the bottle to toast Jeff.
“Thanks for the drink anyway,” was all he could think to say.
“No big deal,” Jeff said with a shrug. “It's like I said, I just felt bad for you.
You've been through a lot lately. I know you've got this hard man exterior,
but it can't be easy for you.”
Larry's heart turned back to stone in an instant.
“I don't need your sympathy,” he said, his voice ice cold. Things were
really fucked up if this know nothing brat was feeling sorry for him, good
heart or not.
133
Again Jeff looked like Larry had just slapped him in the face. But this
time Larry would be damned if he would allow himself to feel sorry for him. If
anything Larry was embarrassed at his own moment of weakness for feeling
anything at all for this kid. Who, he had to remember was just one in a long
line of people to be used to get him out of this shit he was in. He was
nothing more than a pawn, they all were.
“Christ!” He cursed out loud. Must be getting soft in my old age he
thought. Larry didn't have to look directly at the kid to tell he had his mouth
open ready to speak, but he cut him off before he could. “Like I said kid,
thanks for he drink, but now fuck off will you? This whiskey won't drink itself
and I've have enough of you... You, God squaders today to last me two
fucking lifetimes.” Although his voice had a hard edge to it, Larry still couldn't
bring himself to look at Jeff's reaction.
“Okay,” Jeff said softly, but he still lingered by the door. “We'll get you
out of this Larry. You can count on us.”
Larry just stared at the bottle in his hand which he was desperately trying
to stop shaking. But he had to bite his lip when Jeff added before leaving;
“We love you, Larry. Goodnight.”
Larry screwed his eyes tight shut and fought to keep control until finally
he heard the door shut and he was alone again, and with that he collapsed on
the bed. He had to bury his head deep into his pillow to muffle the sobs that
came bursting out of him. He couldn't stop them now even if he wanted to
so he just let them come.
TWENTY
After he had gathered Jeff, Lewis and Peroni together before meeting
Larry for the first time. Father Nichols had made a point of telling them in no
134
uncertain terms what horrors could await them if they stayed and helped him
protect the old crook. Then he had asked them all one simple question. Why?
At some point, he had said, you must all ask yourself the same question.
Why am I here? Why am I willing to die for someone who has no faith,
someone who quite clearly does not deserve our help, or care if we must
make that ultimate sacrifice and die for him. I could give you many reasons,
but in the end, the decision must be yours and yours alone.
You must each take time over the coming hours and look to yourselves
for the answer. And if you cannot find a reason, there is no shame in you
leaving now. This assignment is strictly for willing volunteers only. No one
who remains, least of all me will judge you harshly for this and you can go in
the knowledge we don't hold you in any less regard than when this all started.
Jeff paused on the stairs and looked back up to Larry’s room, he had
gone to see Larry in the hope of finding an answer to that question which was
weighing so heavily on his young shoulders. To find some spark of humanity
in the man that would make all this worthwhile. So that if he had to indeed
make that ultimate sacrifice and stand between Larry McCulloch and the
darkness knowing it would be his end, he would do so without hesitation, safe
in the knowledge it was a worthwhile act.
But Larry just made it so damn hard. Jeff knew Lewis hated the man, but
still had decided to stay, not for the guns and glory as Larry had said but
because for all his wise cracks, Lewis believed in humanity no matter what it
looked or sounded like above everything else, even a scoundrel like Larry
McCulloch deserved to be saved. You don't have to like a man to pull him
out of the way of an oncoming juggernaut, as Lewis had told Jeff once.
But Jeff needed to see more of the man Larry was, to see past that brash
exterior to the real, vulnerable person underneath. Because he had to believe
there was one. Larry was coming to the end of a very dark road, sure it was
one he had paved himself with the misery of others and the old crook
certainly was a prime candidate to sow what he had reaped.
But why? Jeff asked himself. He took a step back up before he realized
it. Should he really try to get through to the man again? He paused before
going higher. Perhaps the whiskey had been a bad idea, but even so Jeff was
sure he had seen something... Well, for want of a better word 'human' behind
135
Larry's eyes when they spoke, before he put the shutters down again. Just a
hint maybe, but it was definitely there.
He was about make his way back upstairs when raised voices coming
from downstairs halted him.
"Idiots!!" It was Peroni, she came storming out of the living room and
into the kitchen. Jeff could hear Father Nichols who was still in the living
room almost shouting at someone and judging by the one way conversation
he was on the phone, no doubt to the Vatican again and it was clear from the
tone and volume of his usually gentle voice it wasn't a conversation he was
relishing or by the sounds of it, winning.
Jeff sat on the stairs, like a child hearing his parents fighting downstairs
and listened.
"We can't wait a week, Cardinal, in a week we could all be dead." It took
Jeff a moment to realize Father Nichols was speaking English, which meant he
must be speaking to (although Nichols would never actually say the word) his
Nemesis at the Vatican, Cardinal Vaughn. A man who had little time for the
work of Nichols and his team based deep in the bowls of the old city. But
much to Nichols' chagrin Vaughn was his immediate superior and as such
Nichols had to deal with the man, and his cynicism on a regular basic.
Politics, Lewis had lamented on more than one occasion. It's all politics, Jeff
mate, better you and me keep out of the way and let the grownups battle it
out.
Wait, did Nichols just say they could all be dead in a week!?"
"You are messing with people’s lives here, Cardinal," Nichols said.
"Please, let me speak to his holiness..."
Jeff exhaled, impressed, he knew that Nichols was high up in the pecking
order at the Vatican, albeit unofficially, but he didn't realize the man had the
ear of the Pope himself.
"No, Vaughn, I know his holiness is back, he came back yesterday!"
Nichols said sharply. Then added softer, "John, please... I know we don't see
eye to eye on this, but you have to trust me. Get me that clearance or all of
this will be for nothing, we have a great chance here, John, don't let it get
buried under all this paperwork. If Randall finds Larry..." His voice trailed off.
136
Clearance. That meant only one thing, Nichols was trying to get Larry
into the Vatican where no one, especially a collector like Randall could touch
him, and that sounded good to Jeff.
"John... John? Damn it!" Nichols appeared in the doorway to the living
room looking flustered and unless Jeff was mistaken, close to tears, he
snapped the mobile phone shut in his hand and rested himself against the
frame and let out a long breath. Cardinal Vaughn had obviously hung up.
Which meant no clearance, So it looked like at least another week here before
they could get to safety. God, Larry would love that. Nichols was definitely
close to tears, he rubbed his eyes with the balls of his hands. He looked up
as Peroni came out of the kitchen, her face still red with fury. She shrugged
as if to say 'Well?' Nichols just weary shook his head in response and Peroni
said something sharply in Italian which had to be an obscenity judging by the
venom in her voice.
Of all the things Jeff had seen and heard over the last couple of days, this
was perhaps the most disturbing. Two of the strongest people he had ever
met so disillusioned, they almost looked defeated before the battle had even
begun, hardly the best way to face such an unknown enemy. Jeff watched
them both, so deflated after a moment they hugged and Nichols said
something softly to Peroni in Italian which Jeff did not understand.
"I know," Peroni replied in English, "But we cannot give in, Father."
"I suppose," Nichols said sounding less than sure, "But we don't have a
choice, do we?"
"Like you said, we can always walk away," Peroni said.
"That's not an option I'm willing to take," Nichols said with a shake of the
head.
It was only now Jeff realized he had been holding his breath, he suddenly
felt like a trespasser in this most personal of moments between the two.
Finally they both went back inside the living room and Jeff could breathe
again.
It seemed to Jeff even their so called own side was against them in this.
So Jeffrey, he asked himself. Why? And much to his surprise the answer
came quickly. There were two very good reasons right there in that room,
and another very sarcastic one freezing his balls off outside keeping watch.
137
Good people, despite everything, willing to press on no matter what the cost
to help a lost soul like Larry McCulloch. Did he deserve their help? God no,
and he certainly wouldn't thank them for it. But Jeff didn't care, this wasn't
about McCulloch or the Vatican bureaucrats, or even in the end about the
fight against evil. This was about the men (and woman) next to you. Father
Nichols, Peroni and Lewis, they were why he was still here and why he would
stay to the bitter end.
The revelation felt good and with it the weight lifted from his shoulders.
Jeff got to his feet and rubbed the life back into his numb legs, it was time to
relieve Lewis outside, a job he usually hated but not tonight. So what if they
had to wait a few more days for those pencil pushers in the Vatican to clear
their precious paperwork and get them out of here? He could happily hold
on now that the path ahead wasn't so twisted or overgrown with doubt and
fear.
And although he was thankful things were clearer in his head now, he still
had one niggling regret. He had wasted thirty pounds on a bottle of whiskey
for that ungrateful so-un-so upstairs. Oh, well he would just have to file that
expense under idiot tax. Not a cheap lesson but one still worth learning.


TWENTY-ONE
"That one called Charlie is an imbecile! What is all this talk of Coffee? I
simply don't understand it collector."
Randall sat casually on the sofa of his plush hotel room and watched
Ishrel pacing the floor. This time he had made the demon look like a clown
complete with green curly wig, white face and red nose. But the most
amusing thing about the get up was that ironically it actually made Ishrel look
genuinely creepy. Ishrel frowned and put his hands behind his back as he
paced looking at the floor. He had appeared just after noon the day before
expecting news on McCulloch's location and wasn't best pleased at the lack of
movement, so much so that Randall had to remind him that they weren't
actually picking up the hotel bill for their stay at Leeds' prestigious Queen's
Hotel.
138
"How hard can this be?" Ishrel asked still pacing. "This was your idea
collector, remember that. You were the one who insisted on employing
humans to locate McCulloch. And all they do is sit around talking about the
pros and cons of Latté coffee. Sometimes I swear you do this type of thing
just to vex me."
"Relax," Randall told the clown. "They're just the babysitters. They have
all kinds of people after McCulloch, besides it's only been a couple of days.
The one called Bill has just taken a call from one of his associates, and I'm
sensing he's got news on Tommy Whitaker."
Ishrel turned to face him, yep genuinely creepy. Randall would have to
think of some other incarnation or he'd be having nightmares. "They've
found Whitaker?" Ishrel asked.
"Feels like it," Randall answered.
"But why didn't they contact you straight away?"
It was a good question and one Randall knew the answer to. "Guess
they're afraid I'll go in all guns blazing. They still think I'm a hit man
remember?"
The demon let out what was as close as he could get to a laugh, which
sounded more like a strangled gagging sound. "If only they knew how much
you hate guns." He said
"Hmm," was all Randall said in reply. Although over the last couple of
days Randall had grown comfortable around Fraker and Charlie he knew deep
down they didn't trust him, or to be precise Bill Fraker didn't. Charlie was an
open book and he and Randall had connected almost immediately, so much
so that he somehow felt there was something of a collector’s spirit buried in
Charlie's subconscious, and that was something he wanted to explore later if
given half a chance. But Bill had remained at a respectful distance obviously
all too aware of the danger he posed to the two of them. Randall knew
Fraker would want to check out Whitaker's location first, perhaps even
attempt to persuade the Lawyer to give up McCulloch to save his own neck.
It was a sensible move and one Randall approved of. After all if it worked that
would be one less thing for Randall to do.
139
Ishrel jumped forwards and wrung has hands as if strangling an
imaginary neck. "We should go next door and throttle it out of them!" He
said.
"You mean I should," Randall corrected him. "You're just the observer,
remember that Ishrel."
"Huh!" Ishrel grunted indignantly and aimed a kick at an expensive
looking lamp on the table which didn't so much as wobble. "Fuck pig!" He
shouted. And Randall caught an actual edge of emotion in his usually
colourless voice which made a refreshing change.
"Time is on our side, Ishrel," Randall said as the demon spun away from
the table in disgust. "Let Fraker do his detective act if he so wishes. Besides
that will give me a chance to speak with Charlie alone."
"Collector recruitment is not within our remit, Randall. Anyway the man
is an imbecile!" He paused then added. "But having said that, I believe that is
the primary requirement for becoming a collector." A ghastly smile cracked
his grease painted face.
Sarcasm now? Randall mused. "You know Ishrel, you're getting more
human every day.” The smile fell right off the clown’s face.
"Now you are just being nasty," he said.
“Christ on a bike, Charlie. What are you doing?” Fraker had come into
the room looking for his coat to find Charlie with a glass pressed against the
wall between theirs and Randall's room. Charlie shushed him with his hand
and pressed his ear to the glass.
“Randall's talking to himself again,” Charlie whispered as if the American
could hear him through the wall.
“Will you come away!” Fraker scolded, he wondered who he was
supposed to be babysitting sometimes. He spotted his coat laid on the back
of a chair and grabbed it.
“'Ere where are you off to?” Charlie asked and finally came away from
the wall.
“I've just been on the phone to Barney, he's got an address where
Whitaker might be hiding out. I'm going to have a look see.”
140
“What now? It's nearly midnight.” Charlie said idly tossing the glass from
hand to hand.
“We've not on office hours, Charlie,” Fraker eyed the glass, it was only a
matter of time before Charlie dropped it. Hand eye coordination wasn't his
best suit. “Put that down,” he said.
Charlie put the glass on a table. “I'll get my coat,” he said.
“No, you stay with the yank,” Fraker said pulling on his coat, he looked
out of the window, at least it had stopped snowing. “I think it’s best we keep
him away from Whitaker for the moment,” he continued. “If Whitaker is at
this place I don't want Randall making a scene. Maybe I can persuade
Whitaker to give up McCulloch without any nonsense.”
“Okay,” Charlie said clearly not happy at being left behind, but Fraker
knew he would do as he was told. The truth was if there was to be a
showdown, Fraker didn't want Charlie anywhere near it. He would rather face
the wrath of a pissed off hit man over Charles Walker senior anytime. Besides,
the kid was becoming too pally with the yank, just like Fraker feared he would.
Whitaker, Whitaker, Whitaker. Fraker had been racking his brains all day
trying to think where he knew the man from. He knew he was McCulloch
dodgy Lawyer and that he had done work for Mister Lyne from time to time
but he just couldn't picture him.
“Here, Charlie,” Fraker asked. “Where do I know this guy Whitaker from?
It's been driving me mad.”
“You remember him,” Charlie said. “Flash git, always drives around in a
Porsche.”
“Narrow it down a bit mate.”
“He's the lawyer who got Rob Murdoch off that murder charge a couple
of years back. The boss used him a couple of times.”
Fraker still couldn't place him. He shook his head.
“Oh, come on,” Charlie said. “You remember, always dressed to the
nines. Late twenties. Perfect hair.”
An image flashed into Fraker’s head and he instantly remembered the
lawyer. Tommy Whitaker, he of the perfect hair. “Oh, Christ of course,” he
141
said. “I remember the hair. And if I'm not mistaken I seem to remember you
thought he was the dog’s bollocks too.” Suddenly it all came back to him,
although Fraker had never actually been introduced to Whitaker, he
remembered Charlie fawning all over him several months back when Mister
Lyne had asked him to drive the Lawyer around while he was defending Rob
Murdoch.
“Sob off,” Charlie said defensively. “I admired him, that's all. I was with
him for a couple of weeks during the whole Murdoch case.”
Mad dog Murdoch. Fraker had the misfortune to meet the man a few
times and each time it had ended in someone getting their head kicked in.
He was an enforcer of the old school variety and a real nasty piece of work.
Fraker remembered the murder case but hadn't realised it was Tommy
Whitaker who had been the magician who had got the lunatic off.
“Mad dog Murdoch,” Fraker said. “Was as guilty as sin, I remember that
much. You'd think his nick name would have tipped the jury off a bit. Mad as
a hatter that bloke.”
“Hell aye,” Charlie agreed. “And there was no doubt Murdoch did it. Got
caught red handed. Literally! But oh, you should have seen Whitaker tear the
defence to shreds.”
Fraker could see Charlie's eyes glaze over as he remembered. It was
another case of him idolising the wrong type of person, like Randall. And it
was something Fraker knew he would have to stamp out and sharpish.
“It was a thing of beauty, Bill.” Charlie added. “You sure I shouldn't come
along? I'm sure he will remember me.”
“No,” Fraker said flatly. “I don't need you fawning all over him.”
“Fuck off,” Charlie snapped. “Like I said, I just admired the guy. You
didn't see him in action.”
“Charlie, he had the Judge in his back pocket.” Fraker said.
“Yeah, I saw the photos,” Charlie said and screwed his face up at the
memory. Then brightened. “Oh, but he still had to sell it to the jury. Make it
look genuine.”
142
Fraker remembered the outcry. Murdoch not only got off, but got fifty
grand compensation on top. He had to give Whitaker credit for that if
nothing else.
“Lawyers,” Fraker said. “Give me a straight talker any day of the working
week, mate. You can't trust people like Whitaker, Charlie,” he warned. “Or
McCulloch for that matter.”
“I know,” Charlie said again on the defensive.
“Charlie, about this yank,” Fraker said, he paused for a moment he knew
he would have to be careful how he put this.
“What about him?” Charlie said eyeing Fraker with suspicion.
“Nothing, just I know what you're like...” Charlie made to protest but
Fraker cut him off. “All I'm saying is I don't want you getting too matey with
him.”
“What do you mean? He seems alright.” Charlie said.
“Yeah, but we're here to do a job, Charlie, and so is he. And it's not a
nice one. I don't want you talking or hanging around with him any more than
you have to.”
“I don't know what you mean,” Charlie said with a look that was
dangerously close to a pout.
“I know what you're like that's all, you're a nosy git and I bet you think
he's the bees knees already just from a few days. Just like Whitaker.”
“Bollocks,” Charlie protested.
“Fine, just don't forget what he is.”
“Stop treating me like a kid, Bill, for Christ sake.” Charlie turned his back
on Fraker and looked like he was about to storm off into his bedroom.
“I'm just saying,” Fraker said defensively. “Charlie, look at me.” Charlie
reluctantly turned to face him. “All I'm saying is that this fella, nice as he
might seem, is trouble, he's a hit man for Christ sake.”
“I know,” Charlie said softly and this time without the attitude. “As soon
as we find where McCulloch is, we bugger off.”
143
“Good lad.” Fraker slapped him playfully on the arm and buttoned up his
coat. “If we get messed up in a shooting, we'll go down for just as long as he
does.” Charlie nodded in response. “And quite frankly Charles.” Fraker
added. “You are not the prison type my friend.”
“Can't argue with that,” Charlie said with a shrugged. “I’m far too pretty
for prison.”
Happy that peace once more reigned between them, Fraker headed for
the door. “Right, I'm off before Randall comes in. I swear that guy never
sleeps.” He turned back to Charlie who gave recovered the glass and was
back over at the adjoining wall to eaves drop once again. “And Charlie?”
“Yeah?”
If he asks, you have no idea where I've gone, be vague. You should be
good at that. See ya later.”
And with that Fraker left to face the cold night air, and hopefully the
beginning of the end of their relationship with the yank.
Back in his room, Randall didn't need a glass to know Fraker was gone
and what they had been discussing. He had Ishrel.
The demon fair danced through the connecting wall between the two
rooms. “You were right, collector, they have a lead on this Tommy
Whitaker....” His voice trailed off as he looked down at his latest incarnation,
curtesy of Randall's vivid imagination. “Oh, for fucksake, really?”
“Why not, since you're going to be my little detective for a while,”
replied Randall to Ishrel who was now wearing the cheap Halloween mask
from before (the creepy clown face long gone,) but was now also dressed as
Sherlock Holmes, complete with a tweed three piece Victorian suit and of
course a deer stalker hat. He had kept the demon short to add insult to injury
so he only stood three feet tall.
“One day, Collector,” Ishrel warned, “one day.”
“So, you were saying?” Randall asked nonchalantly.
The demon sighed and tried to gather up as much dignity as it could.
“The one called Fraker has a lead on the possible whereabouts of Tommy
Whitaker.”
144
Randall jumped up from his chair and went over to the window, he
pushed back the curtain and looked down the three floor to the street below.
“Told you they could be useful, we have been looking for McCulloch for
weeks now, and they've got the best lead we've had, in just a couple of days.”
“So, what next?” Ishrel asked.
“You follow Bill. If he has found Whitaker, find out what he knows and
where he is and if he can actually be of use to us in locating McCulloch.
Come back here and lead me to him. I'll do the rest.”
“You know Whitaker might not actually know where McCulloch is.”
“I'm sure he doesn't, exactly,” Randall said coming away from the
window. “But I'll bet your fancy hat he can contact him, then we can trace
McCulloch location from there. So you think you can keep up with Bill old
man?”
“Huh!” Ishrel grunted and put his hands on his hips. Randall laughed out
loud at the absurd figure he cut and the demon spun on his heels and headed
for the door.
“See you soon Holmes.” He said as Ishrel disappeared. And he had the
feeling that someday he was going to pay big style for all the humiliation he
had heaped on the demon over the years. Which reminded him, he would
have to remember to say 'No shit Sherlock,' at some point when Ishrel got
back. Yes he would surely reap some shit for all this one day, but hell it was
just so much damn fun not to.


TWENTY-TWO
In the end, it had been Tommy Whitaker’s need for pizza that would
ultimately bring about his untimely demise. For all his best efforts to keep
himself hidden, (not to mention the bag lady's lilac coated advice about
keeping a low profile.) The sight of a derelict in a two thousand pound, if
soiled, Armani suit paying for a takeaway pizza with an American express gold
card had lit up his whereabouts like a big neon sign.
145
After that, it hadn’t taken a master detective to check the credit card
number’s latest transactions, one of which included room and board at the
less than luxurious Riverside Bed and Breakfast, in front of which Bill Fraker
now stood. He had just come off the phone to one of Mister Lyne’s many
Private Investigators who was now five hundred pounds the richer for what in
the end had only been at most twenty minutes of sleuthing. ‘Nice work if you
can get it’ thought Fraker.
He looked at the place, someone must have paid the health inspector
and half a dozen other agencies a hefty bribe to keep this place open. The
Bed and Breakfast was little more than a glorified squat. Fraker couldn’t
believe the Tommy Whitaker that he knew would be seen dead in a place like
this. There was laying low, and there was laying low he mused.
A swift twenty-pound note to the manager had given Fraker the guy in
the expensive suit’s room number and he made his way up a flight of barely
carpeted stairs to the first floor. Whitaker’s room was the last at the far end
of the corridor and when he reached it, Fraker pressed his ear against the
door. He could hear muffled movement from inside and for a second wished
he had brought along the berretta, just in case. Whitaker wasn’t the violent
type but he was scared and scared people could be unpredictable and Fraker
was damn sure the kneecap routine wouldn’t work here
He hammered hard on the door and pressed his ear back against it, he
was sure he heard someone curse and could imagine Whitaker on the other
side holding his breath. Fraker knocked again. “Tommy Whitaker,” he said to
the wood. “Open the door, son, I know you’re in there.” Nothing, then the
sound of shuffling feet close to the door. Whitaker was on the other side,
listening, probably with his ear pressed right against the wood so Fraker
knocked again, hard and heard someone curse from inside.
“Christ, Whitaker, I can hear you in there. Open the door or I’ll kick the
fucker in.”
“Go away,” Whitaker shouted. “Leave me alone, or I’ll call the police.
“I don’t think you’re gonna do that Tommy,” Fraker said in a softer tone.
“Now how about opening the door? I just want to talk. And it's fucking
freezing out here.” Although he couldn't imagine it would be any warmer in
Whitaker's room, this place didn't exactly sing out central heating.
146
“No way, I’ve never heard of Tommy Whitaker. I’ve got a gun... Try
breaking in and I’ll shoot.”
Fraker had heard a million threats over the years and he knew Whitaker
was bluffing, even if he did have a gun, which he very much doubted, he
wouldn’t use it. “Listen, I’m one of the few people who doesn’t want you in
casualty, or worse. Now I’m sick of talking to a fucking door. Should I go get
the yank I’m working for and let him kick it in? Maybe you’d like to tell him
face to face, you’ve never heard of Tommy Whitaker?”
Whitaker gave an audible gasp. “Yank? Did, you say..? His voice trailed
away he sounded sick.
“You heard what I said. Don’t worry he doesn’t know I’m here, yet.
Thought it was best for your well-being if I talked to you first. Call me a
humanitarian.”
“Who are you?” Whitaker asked weakly.
Fraker bit his lip, he was close to kicking the door into Whitaker’s face.
“I’m Bill Fraker, I work for Harry Lyne, and I know you know who he is.”
The lock on the door clicked and it open a few inches. Whitaker’s blood
shot eyes scanned Fraker and the corridor around him. There was a look in
them that made Fraker physically shudder and he was thankful when
Whitaker screwed them shut and stepped away so he could enter.
The room smelled exactly as Fraker knew it would, a mixture of stale
body odour, unwashed clothes, and for want of a better word; fear. Whitaker
stood in the middle of the room with a hangdog expression on his weary face
he looked to Fraker like a scarecrow. His once perfect hair was matted and
greasy, his overpriced clothes hung off him looking at least a size to big due
undoubtedly to his lack of eating. Testament to this was the treacherous
pizza laid still in its box less than a quarter eaten.
“How did you find me?” Whitaker said without looking up, his voice
barely a whisper.
Fraker gestured towards the pizza. “Credit card,” he said and Whitaker
nodded with a weary resignation.
Whitaker put his hand into his trouser pocket, and for a moment Fraker
thought he might actually pull out a gun. But instead he produced what
147
looked like a small gold nugget, Whitaker looked at it, then flicked it across
the room. “Should have stayed at the Hilton after all,” he said. “Five hundred
quid that thing cost me. Huh, there’s one born every minute.” He finally
looked Fraker in the eye. “Where’s the yank?”
“Relax, he’s not around. Besides, it’s not you he wants.” Fraker said.
“He said that?” Whitaker said a little brighter.
Fraker kicked the door shut with his heal. “You know who he wants,” he
looked around at the squalor. “Christ man, what the hell happened to you?
Surely you could do better than this shit hole? And look at yourself, you look
like you haven’t washed or slept in a week.”
The lawyer smiled weakly and glanced at himself. “Two, I think.”
“Where’s McCulloch?” Asked Fraker. He felt like he was in a room with a
dead body, sure this one was walking and talking, but he was dead never the
less, he just hadn’t quite learnt to let go yet. To accept the ride was over.
“I honestly don’t know,” said the dead guy, his voice empty.
“Do you enjoy living like this?” said Fraker. “Why are you protecting him?
Do you really think he’d do the same for you?”
“Christ no, not Larry. But that’s just it, I really don’t know. Don’t you think
I’d tell you if I did? I owe him nothing, especially not my life.” He looked
around him. “Such as it is. I spoke to him, a few of days ago, after I found out
what was really going on. Last I heard he was still with Scotland Yard, least
that was who I hooked him up with. But now he’s disappeared, no one knows
where he is. But whoever’s got him are keeping him safe...” He gave a grunt
at the word safe. “Huh, safe, that’s a fucking joke.”
Although Fraker had never actually met Whitaker before, he had seen
him around, usually with some woman barely out of her teens and dripping
with diamonds on his arm. Always dressed immaculately, and invariable left
in some type of outrageously expensive sports car. And of course his famous
hair. If you saw a picture of him, you’d swear it was airbrush on it was so neat.

But now he was just a shadow of that guy. Fraker found it hard to
believe this wreck was the same person, how the mighty have fallen. He was
suddenly reminded of Charlie, and how he had idolised Whitaker. And for the
148
first time could see him going the same way, shit out of luck, alone, scared.
Anger came out of nowhere.
“Just look at you,” said Fraker, even surprising himself at the venom in his
voice. “You had it all, now? Christ what have you gotten yourself into?”
“Believe me, all that money, the power, it means nothing. I’d give it all up
in a heartbeat, if it could get me out of this shit I’m in. It means nothing in
the end. I can’t protect myself from these people.” Whitaker paused, staring
off into space with a look haunted look that sent a shiver down Fraker’s spine.
“That yank,” he said after an age, “Christ the things I’ve heard about him. The
shit he can do.”
“What, Randall?” Asked Fraker.
“So,” continued Whitaker. “It is him...” His voice trailed off again then he
suddenly looked Fraker in the eye, and for the first time held his gaze. “Christ
man, what the hell are you doing working for a thing like that? I didn’t know
Harry Lyne was mixed up in all this. I thought he got where he is the good
old fashioned dishonest way.”
“We’re not mixed up with anyone,” Fraker said, a little taken a back. “I’m
just babysitting this yank until we can track down McCulloch. Then I just walk
away and let him get on with it.”
Whitaker looked at him with genuine amusement, and Fraker had to fight
the urge to smack him in the mouth. “That simple, eh?” Whitaker said
knowingly. “Seem to remember that’s what I used to keep telling myself. Oh
they’re nothing special, powerful? Yeah. But where do you think power like
that comes from, Fraker?” He paused for a response, but Fraker could only
think of how Lyne had looked back in his office when all this had started:
‘They have made a lot of powerful people very nervous.’
“No, my friend,” Whitaker continued. “You get mixed up with people like
that, there’s no going back. Take my advice, get out while you still can.”
“Don’t worry about me,” Fraker said a little on the defensive, “I can take
care of myself. Besides, you’re hardly in the position to give me advice,
Whitaker.”
Whitaker’s gaze drifted away again. “True, but you get mixed up with
them. It... It stains you, it stains your soul.” He shook his head and muttered
149
something Fraker couldn't hear, then added. “That Randall, he’s, he's just a
foot soldier, but he’s one of the worst. Christ the things I’ve heard about that
one.”
“You talk about him like he’s the Devil himself.” Said Fraker.
“May as well be,” replied Whitaker, he looked back at Fraker. “So what
are you going to tell him about me?”
“That you’re a nutter.”
Whitaker took a step towards Fraker, who clenched his fist, but the move
was desperate, not threatening. Whitaker held up a trembling hand and
lightly touched Fraker’s chest. “You tell him...” He voice faltered, think with
emotion. “You convince him that I don’t know where Larry is. You have to.”
He suddenly raced over to his jacket which was hanging over the back of a
chair and took out his wallet. He waved it in Fraker’s face.
“Look, I can give you money, shit loads of it, as much as you like. Just
don’t tell him where I am.” He pleaded.
Fraker knocked his hand away, “I don’t want your money.”
“Yes, yes you do.” Whitaker said with growing desperation. “And also,
and this bit is important. Don’t even think about this place, don’t think about
any of it, what it looks like, where it is, how you got here. Don’t think about
any of that, and you’ll be rich.”
“I told you I don’t want...”
“None of it, or he’ll know,” Whitaker cut him off. “He’ll know how to get
here.” He was growing frantic now and Fraker gave serious thought to
slapping the maniac, hard. But Whitaker was oblivious to this as he was in full
flow now. “Oh, Jesus,“ he babbled. “For Christ sake, don’t even say my name
anymore, he’ll know, like a shark.” He suddenly dropped to his knees and
scrambled over to where he had flicked what Fraker had thought was a gold
nugget of some kind.
“The tooth, Jesus.” He found it and held it up for Fraker to see. “Oh
thank Christ.”
Fraker recoiled. “What the hell are you talking about, say your name?
What fucking difference will that make?” He looked down in disbelief at the
gold tooth in Whitaker’s grubby hand. “Snap out of it!” He shouted and
150
without thinking slapped Whitaker across the face. Whitaker’s mouth fell
open in shock and he stared up at Fraker, stunned. “Next time it won’t be a
fucking love tap, Whitaker, now pull yourself together.” Fraker shouted, his
heart pounding in his ears.
What the fucking hell had just happened? Fraker thought. One minute
Whitaker was trying to bribe him, (which was thankfully the first normal thing
he’d done since Fraker had entered this God forsaken room) the next he was
babbling about sharks and scrambling around on the floor like a lunatic.
He grabbed Whitaker’s shirt collar and dragged him to his feet. “I can’t
protect myself.” Whitaker finally said. Fraker let him go and half expected
him to fall to his knees again, but Whitaker just stood, there with blood
dripping from his mouth.
“You should sit down, Tommy, before you fall down.” Whitaker nodded
barely comprehending, but didn’t move. Fraker took hold of his arms and
gently let him over to the room’s tatty sofa and he finally slumped down into
it. “You got anything to drink?” Asked Fraker.
Whitaker shook his head. He looked down at the tooth still clutched in
his hand. “Can’t protect myself,” he said softly to no one in particular. “Who
was I trying to kid? It’s too late for all that now, always was.” He let the tooth
fall onto the floor again and looked up at Fraker. “He’s been waiting all this
time. Waiting for it all to fall into place. Christ, he probably knew the
moment you said my name at the door.” He kicked the tooth away in disgust.

Not this again, thought Fraker. He was going to speak but there was
something about the way Whitaker sat there, like a lost child who knew his
parents had long since abandoned him that robbed Fraker of anything to say
but banalities, and this sure wasn’t the time for those.
Then Whitaker’s gaze drifted off again, into the shadows. “I should kill
myself,” he said in a whisper. “Kill myself and be done with all this horror,
before he gets to me. At least it would be quick. But I’m too much of a
coward. Shit, don’t even know if it would make any difference anyway.” He
smiled but it melted from his face a heat beat later. “Damned if you do,
damned if you don’t.” Whitaker got to his feet and straightened his shirt,
which now had spots of blood on it from his busted lip. And Fraker thought
that maybe he was rallying somewhat.
151
“What’s going on, Tommy?” Asked Fraker.
“Be careful who you do business with Mister Fraker,” Whitaker said.
“That’s the moral here. I was warned, can’t say I wasn’t. Walked into this
whole sorry mess with my eyes wide open. Huh, me and Larry both.” A thin
smile cracked his weary face and this time it stuck. “Damn fool still thinks he’s
going to be able to bullshit his way out of all this.” Whitaker continued
bitterly. “Fucking idiot, he has no idea what’s coming, oh but he will soon
enough. Tried telling him but he just wouldn’t listen.”
“So you have spoken to him?” Said Fraker, finally an opening.
“Yeah, few days ago. Don’t know why I bothered, he thought I was as
mad as you do. But he’ll see. You will too if you’re not careful.” He pointed
an accusing finger at Fraker.
If that was a threat, it had no weight at all. Fraker took his mobile out of
his pocket and opened up the address book. “Give me his number, that’s a
start at least.” He said.
Whitaker brightened a little at this, seeing a chink of light in his situation.
“Yeah, yeah, that’s a good idea. But if I give it to you, you have to convince
Randall to leave me alone. Tell him that’s all I know, tell him I’m not worth
bothering with.” He looked at Fraker hopefully. “I mean, it’s like you said, it’s
Larry he wants, right?”
He was hanging on Fraker’s reply, but what could he say? Whitaker was
as dead as McCulloch, he’d be trampled in the stampede to get to the old
crook. “That’s right, Tommy.” He lied, “I’ll talk to the yank.”
He passed his phone to Whitaker who punched in a number and handed
it back. “You tell him,” he said weakly. And with that he fair fell back onto the
sofa.
The lawyer’s shoulders slumped and he rested his elbows on his knees
and Fraker couldn't think of ever seeing a more pathetic, defeated soul in his
life and it was chilling.
“What’s this all about, Tommy?” Fraker asked after what seemed like
minutes. “Why are they after him?”
“Does it matter?” Whitaker replied.
152
“There’s more to it, than that damned book of his, isn’t there?” Suddenly
Fraker wasn’t sure he actually wanted to know. He was about to turn and
leave when Whitaker gave him a haunted look which stopped him dead.
“It started with the people,” said Whitaker.
“People?” The look in his eyes made Fraker physically shutter.
Whitaker took a moment to gather his thoughts, by the look on his face
Fraker knew he was going to some place buried deep at the back of his mind,
a place Fraker now regretted asking about even before he had heard what
was lurking there.
“McCulloch had got himself involved in people trafficking, in Eastern
Europe. Nothing big, just sort of a side-line really. He’d cut a deal to
transport six illegal immigrants from Poland. Didn’t know why, didn’t care,
neither of us did.” He shook his head at his foolishness. “We just thought
they were going to be used as cheap labour or something. The whole thing
was sordid as hell, but if I’m honest it was a bit of an adventure. All we had to
do was get them from Poland to England without getting caught. Simple
enough, easy money.”
“Obviously not easy enough.” Said Fraker.
“Should have been, but then Larry got greedy and decided to pull a burn
on our mysterious employers.” Whitaker raised his eye brows and Fraker
detected a familiar if faint glint in his eye.
“It was quite clever to be fair,” Whitaker continued, “He took money from
everyone, and I willingly went along with it. He took the money from
Randall’s people, to transport them to England, as agreed. Then, from those
six sorry bastards to take them elsewhere. They didn’t care where, just as
long as it was away from Randall’s lot.” Whitaker smiled now, it was weak but
lit up his face. “Then, and get this, from some French bloke, who needed
cheap labour. Christ knows where they finally ended up in the end. Working
in some Paris kitchen for five euros an hour most like.” Whitaker gave a rueful
shake of the head. “Poor bastards.”
“That’s it?” Said Fraker. “All this for six nobodies?” He knew it didn’t add
up and that he should just leave it alone, but he just couldn't. “Bollocks,” he
added even though it would open up a can of worms.
153
After a moment, Whitaker’s face grew darker. “Should have been,” he
said softly. “The whole fucking thing can’t have cost them more than twenty
grand. And what’s that to them? Sure we knew they’d be pissed off, but...”
His voice trailed off as if the gravity of the situation had just dawned on him.
“This is about more than money. What was so special about those six
Poles?” Asked Fraker.
Whitaker physically winced at the question but didn’t answer, he just
exhaled and looked at his feet again. Fraker felt a twinge of anger, he was
rapidly getting the feeling he was in the middle of something bad, but he had
to drag anything remotely resembling a straight answer out of Whitaker and
it was wearing thin. He felt out of his depth, lost and it wasn’t a feeling he
liked.
He’d always been taught not to ask too many questions, to keep things
simple and under control and it had served him well through the years, but
this was different. Randall and his mysterious employers were the wild cards
here, something he couldn’t control. That look in Lyne’s eye flashed into
Fraker head again. Although with the boss it had been only fleeting, Whitaker
had that same look permanently etched on his face. And it was one that
Fraker increasingly feared might be catching
“These six,” Fraker finally said again. “What was so special about them?”

“They were, special somehow,” Whitaker replied softly. Then shrugged as
though he didn’t really know why. “Important to Randall’s people. Not some
random meat, slave labour or whatever. No they were special, marked for
something big. They all had a tattoo somewhere on their bodies. One each
which were apparently six parts that made up a whole picture of some kind.
Some old runic thing as I remember. But to be honest, I didn’t dig too deeply
into the significance of it. And Larry just plain didn’t care.” He exhaled.
“Christ, I dread to think what it was for. But the point is it turns out they were
irreplaceable.”
“And you and Larry blew it for them.” Said Fraker.
Whitaker nodded and look at him. “And now we’re damned,” he said
plainly.
154
Damned. Such a strange word to choose, but looking at him, it was plain
to see at least Whitaker believed it. Fraker had to look away from the man, he
glanced at the door and decided enough was enough. “So, this book of
Larry’s, has nothing to do with any of this.”
“Huh, he thinks it’s his get out of jail free card, he thinks the government
can protect him. But no one can, not from Randall.”
“He’s just...” Fraker paused, just what?
“He’s not, Human.” Whitaker answered the question for him. It was a
statement of fact, to Whitaker at least, and he said it without a hint of
embarrassment.
“Oh, come on,” Fraker snapped, more at himself for letting Whitaker
spook him than anything else. “Listen to yourself.” That was it, Fraker took a
step towards the door, but Whitaker stood up and grabbed his arm, it was so
unexpected, it took Fraker a moment to process that he’d done it. He felt the
grip through his jacket sleeve, surprisingly strong and for the second time
tonight he wished he’d brought along the Berreta.
He looked at Whitaker’s hand for a full five seconds before finally pulling
his arm free. “Don’t touch me.” He said, almost lamely.
“I know how it sounds,” Whitaker actually grinned, but it soon faded.
“But believe me, once he catches up with Larry, he’s gonna wish it was just
those crooked police and pissed off gangsters that got him.”
Fraker rubbed his arm without realising it, he could feel the bruise
already.
“They would only torture him for a couple of days,” continued Whitaker,
his voice so cold Fraker expected to see it in the air. “That would seem like
bliss compared to what Randall’s people have in store for him.”
Fighting the desire to run from the room, Fraker back away and opened
the door behind him without turning around. He half expected Whitaker to
grab him again, but he merely nodded. The stagnant air in the corridor smelt
almost fresh compared to the oppressive odour of despair in Whitaker’s
room. Fraker turned and took a couple of steps.
155
“Mister Fraker?” Much against his better judgement, Fraker turned
around again. “Get out, leave tonight, while you still can.” Whitaker looked
him up and down. “You’re not so, tainted... Yet.”
“Don’t worry about me,” said Fraker, his voice wavered with fear, so much
so that he scared himself. He walked away as confidently as he could, but it
was all he could do to stop himself from running.
“I’m damned, Mister Fraker!” Whitaker shouted behind him and Fraker
quickened his step. “Get out of this nightmare while you still can.” Fraker was
at the stairs now, he took them three at a time. But he could still hear
Whitaker who must have come out into the corridor, but thankfully hadn't
come any further. “Fraker! If you have one ounce of pity in you, you’ll tell
Randall you couldn’t find me.” Fraker was at the front door now, he kicked it
open, it closed behind him, just as Whitaker shouted; “Better still, tell him I’m
dead!”
The cold air outside hit Fraker like a slap in the face, taking his breath
away. He staggered, suddenly dizzy and had to rest his back against the
building to stop himself from keeling over. He bent forwards and rested his
hands on his knees and gulp down air until, thankfully the nausea passed
without him actually throwing up.
Fraker walked over to the car like a drunk and clambered inside,
instinctively, he reached over to the glove compartment and took out the hip
flask. But once he got a whiff of the whiskey inside it made his stomach
churn. “Great,” he said to his reflection in the rear view mirror, and screwed
the top back on. He couldn’t even numb this growing feeling of dread with
his beloved alcohol.
“Fuck this,” he spat and fired up the car, he stomped on the accelerator
and sped away accompanied by the squeal of tires.
Bill Fraker had no idea just what the hell he was in the middle of, but he
instinctively knew it was all wrong. Things were happening around him that
just didn't add up and he knew now that he should have just refused the
boss’s request flat out straight away. But still, like Whitaker said, it wasn’t too
late for him to get out, and hopefully that meant Charlie too. And that was all
he really needed to know. Whatever this unnamed menace stalking Whitaker
and McCulloch was. It wouldn’t get them.
156
This nightmare was over, no matter what the cost. The boss would
understand, that look in his eye told Fraker that much. All that remained was
to get Charlie and get gone. And to hell with the rest of the players in this
sick game. Literally if needs be.
Fraker fumbled inside his coat pocket as he drove and pulled out his
mobile, he needed to call Charlie and tell him to leave McCulloch's number
for the yank and then get out of there, no questions asked. The last thing he
needed was to have to face Randall and tell him they were quitting, God only
knew what his reaction would be.
“Shit,” Charlie's number just rang out not even tripping to voice mail.
Fraker ended the call and tried again, the prat always had his phone with him
so what was so different about tonight?
Ishrel watched Whitaker as he frantically locked his door and stepped
back into the room. He was a broken man, Ishrel’s favourite kind. He had
been perched in a corner of the ceiling listening to the two men for a minute
or so now. It had been much easier than he had anticipated tracking Fraker
here. He had thought he’d lost him at one point but when he said Whitaker’s
name at the door, it pulled him here like a magnet.
‘Ripples’. Poor Tommy Whitaker had no protection at all, but he
obviously thought he had. He recognised Mary’s work the moment he saw
the tooth. She was well known to Ishrel and his kind, very theatrical, but
harmless. She did possess some power, power stolen or stumbled upon over
the years but little else. If anything she was a great help to the cause, people
get sloppy when they think they are protected. That was the main reason she
was allowed to continue her work. That and the amusement value.
Things were finally taking shape, maybe the collector had been right all
along with his use of the humans not that he would ever admit that to
Randall. Anyway now that they had Whitaker, McCulloch was but a hop skip
and a jump away from damnation.
And with that thought warming his frozen heart, Ishrel melted back into
the ether. “Be back soon, Tommy Whitaker,” he said, even though he knew
the man couldn’t hear him. He still delighted to see Whitaker shiver all the
same.

157

TWENTY-THREE
What was that incredibly annoying noise?
Randall stood in the near darkness of Fraker’s and Charlie's room
listening to what sounded like someone blowing bubbles into a glass of
water, it took him a few moments until he finally realized it was coming from
Charlie's mobile phone which was sitting on a coffee table bubbling away. Its
owner was in a deep sleep on the sofa next to it. Randall would have thought
the annoying ring tone would have been grating enough to prompt the dead
to rise from their graves in an effort to silence the cacophony but not Charlie
he barely twitched.
The collector looked at the caller ID which read: 'Bill'. Randall gave an
audible sigh of relief then the phone finally fell silent. He had broken into the
room the old fashioned way, with an expertly applied butter knife to the lock
when Charlie had failed to answer the door which wasn't that surprising
considering it was now nearly two am.
Randall watched Charlie sleeping peacefully for a moment, he knew the
phone call meant Fraker was probably on his way back which meant he didn't
have that much time. But why was he here? What was it about the kid that
sparked his interest anyway? Was he really a potential collector? Seeing him
now laying so innocently asleep the thought seemed a little ludicrous, but still
there was undeniably something about Charlie that warranted this intrusion.
He knelt down next to the sofa so that he could get a better look at Charlie as
his brow furrowed and he let out a low moan then shifted his position
awkwardly. He was dreaming.
“Charlie?” Randall said softly but he didn't wake. Somewhere during his
training deep within the void before his return, Randall had learned a thing or
two about dream manipulation and it had served him well other the years.
But he didn't have the time for anything so complicated now so he decided
just to have a peak at what was going on inside that head of Charlie's.
Randall rubbed his hands together and felt the instant heat as the power
surged through them then with practiced precision he carefully rested the
palm of his left hand on the back of Charlie's head and held it there as the
158
heat increased as the energy flowed through his hand and deep into the back
of Charlie's brain deep into his subconscious dreaming mind. “Now,” Randall
said softly as he closed his eyes and concentrated. “Let's see what we can
see.”
“Charlie?” The voice was a whisper close to Charlie's ear. He jolted
awake expecting to see the speaker right next to him.
“What? Huh?” Charlie sat up and looked groggily around the darkened
room. He was alone, no one was leaning over him whispering his name. It
took him a moment to orientate himself. He was still in the hotel room and
realized he must have dozed off. He swung his legs around and sat up
properly. That's when he saw Randall sitting in the chair opposite him, he was
masked in the half light, but definitely there. “Randall, Christ,”
“You were sleeping,” the American said.
“What? No, just resting my eyes,” he blurted out as if a teacher had
caught him sleeping in class. “Bill's not here, he's erm, he's out.”
“So I see,” Randall said and leaned forward so the meagre light from
outside finally hit his face.
“Don't know where he's gone I’m afraid,” Charlie lied. He ran his hands
through his messy hair in a vain attempt to flatten it. He shrugged and smiled
awkwardly not knowing what else to do.
“You were dreaming,” Randall said after a long pause. “While you we
resting your eyes.”
“I was?” Charlie replied and felt the sudden need for light so he reached
across and turned on the lamp on the table in front of him, the harsh yellow
light hurt his eyes but at least he could see Randall better. An image from the
dream flashed into his mind’s eye for a second then slowly faded like a flash
bulb briefly illuminating the scene until it finally melted back into darkness
where it belonged. Strangely vivid then gone in a heartbeat but leaving
behind a lingering melancholy.
“Weird,” Charlie said. Now he could barely remember what it had been,
but the feeling of loss, of sorrow remained which meant only one thing: “I
was dreaming about my Dad.”
“He's sick,” Randall stated plainly.
159
“Hmm, yeah,” Charlie nodded. “Hey hang on, how did you know that?”
He asked certain he had ever even mentioned his Father in front of Randall,
let alone his condition. Why would he?
“And it's serious,” Randall said again without inflection, it was what it was,
a statement of fact.
The blunt truthfulness of Randall's tone weighed heavy on Charlie and he
exhaled sadly but then caught himself and delivered the Walker party line on
the issue. “Yeah, but he's going to be okay.” He made the mistake of looking
Randall in the eye which instantly made the words the lie Charlie knew deep
down they were, but he steeled himself to carry on with it regardless.
“Sure he's in hospital,” he continued. “Just for test though, y'know? But
he should be out any time now.” He could feel the American’s eyes on him,
looking for any crack in the veneer, but this time Charlie made damn sure he
didn't meet his gaze.
After an age, Randall said; “You know he's dying.”
Again the bluntness of his words hit Charlie hard. “What? No, no,” he
protested. “You don't know him, he’s a tough old git. He'll be alright. For
Christ sake, he's only sixty five!”
“People die a lot younger than sixty five, Charlie” Randall said. “Take my
word for it.”
Truth. Hard and cold. “Yeah,” Charlie managed deflated. “I know.”
“Like your Mom.”
Charlie nodded, “Hmm,” wait a second! “Hey, how the hell did you know
my Mum was dead?” Charlie asked suddenly angry. He knew for damn sure
he had never mentioned that to the yank. He moved to get up but his legs
gave way and he sat back down on the sofa.
“I can smell it on you,” Randall replied.
“What?” Charlie suddenly felt faint, his head was pounding particularly at
the back, he absently rubbed the back of his head and half expected to feel
something clamped on there like a weight of some kind, but he realized the
feeling wasn't on his head, it was inside the back of his skull almost like a
stone, heated by an open fire, white hot burning a hole into his brain.
160
Before he knew what had happened he was laid back on the sofa, and
now that he was, he couldn't remember ever having actually sat up.
“Relax, Charlie,” Randall said, his voice oddly soothing. “You're still
sleeping.”
Of course Charlie thought, that explains a lot, the strange feeling at the
back of his mind, Randall's Clairvoyance. But wait a second, he was awake,
wasn't he? His eyes were open, sure he felt weird but he was there, in the
hotel room talking with the yank, wide awake if more than a little
disorientated. “Wide awake,” he said out loud as if trying to convince himself.
“Just try and relax,” Randall said his voice inside Charlie's head now, it
was so soft it made his eyelids heavy if he hadn't been asleep before, he sure
as shit was now. Wasn't he?
“What's happening to me?” He slurred, as the room descended into
darkness. “What's....” The word drifted off into the black which was all around
him now. He was sure he was dying but it felt okay, not so bad at all.
“Randall?” His voice sounded a million miles away, barely recognizable as his
own, so much so that he thought maybe he had just imagined he's spoken.
Perhaps he had.
Charlie was lost now in total darkness, it wasn’t simply a lack of light that
engulfed him it was an almost physical, oppressive tomb of black. He
shouted, but the moment the sound left his lips it was swallowed up by the
void he was drowning in. So much so that he began to doubt he had even
made the sound in the first place it was gone so suddenly. Perhaps he had
just thought about screaming in terror and not actually uttered a word.
He held his hand up to within an inch of his face but could see nothing,
or at least he thought that was what he had done, but as with the phantom
shout, maybe he had just imagined the action, after all he couldn't even feel
his breath on his hand if it was so close. Charlie was alone in an infinite dead
space, and wondered if this was what death was like.
Am I dead? He said, or dreamed he thought he'd said.
No. At last a sound, a voice but not his own. No not a sound, it was
inside his head again. Wasn't it? It was familiar somehow, an American
accent. Yes, the yank, Randall's voice inside his head?
161
Where am I?
In a place between sleep and the waking world. The voice/thought inside
his head replied cryptically.
I'm scared.
Don't be.
But I can't feel anything. Can't hear or see or feel anything... Except
scared. At least that was something to grasp hold of in the void. Fear. It
wasn't the most comforting of anchors but it was the only real thing he had at
this point.
You can hear me, Charlie.
In a way... You sure I'm not dead?
Positive.
What are we doing here? In the space between sleep and the waking
world?
You were dreaming before. When I came in, you were dreaming about
something, remember?
No, I can't. You sure I'm not dead?
You're still sleeping, kind of.
This place is weird. You sure I'm actually here? Shit, that's a strange thing
to say, erm, think. Whatever it is I'm doing now, saying, thinking, that’s all the
same here, right? Saying and thinking. What am I doing... Saying or
thinking?
Right now? You're babbling.
Hmm, You know what this is like? Feels like tripping or something. Well
I say feels like, I can't feel anything... Yep feels like tripping...
Tripping?
You know, LSD.
Never tried it.
I feel... Out of my body.
162
You are.
Can I wake up now please?
You were dreaming, before.
So you said.
I want to know what you were dreaming about, Charlie.
Can't remember.
I can help you with that. That's why we're here.
In the place between sleep and the waking world.
Now you're getting it.
Did I mention I'm scared?
Even though you can't feel anything?
Okay, I think I'm scared.
I think therefore I am.
Huh?
Charlie, I need you to concentrate. I need you to remember your dream.
Why?
Because I believe that dream has a memory you can't quite reach. And
it's the one that is shaping what you are, or what you could be if you let me
help you unlock it. It's buried deep in your subconscious and I think it could
make you a good collector.
Collector of what?
Later, I need you to remember that forgotten moment.
Why? Oh, wait, I think I asked that already. I'm I repeating myself? It's
hard to remember anything out here.
I need you to remember, because I can't remember mine. That moment,
that event that triggered all this... after life.
Huh?
163
Forget it, it's not important. Now, come on, tell be what you were
dreaming about.
Can't.
Why..? No, hang on... That's it, I'm getting a summer’s day, Children's
laughter...
How!?
Concentrate Charlie.
Randall, stop! I can't remember.
You already have, Pal... Yes that's it, I've got it now.
Discombobulated.
Huh?
That's how I feel. Or think I feel. One thing's for sure, if I could feel
anything right about now, it would be a big fucking headache.
It'll be over soon. Yep, tuned in now. Say Charlie?
Yeah?
Wanna see something really cool?
Randall. To be honest, you fucking freak. I'd be glad to see any fucking
thing at all right about now. Cool or otherwise!
Can't argue with that.
Oh, and Randall?
Yeah, Charlie?
Sorry about that fucking freak crack. It's just that I'm...
Discombobulated, yeah I know.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
TWENTY-FOUR
164
Something now, Charlie could hear faint voices, drifting towards him
from out of the darkness. Definitely voices that he was sure and no longer in
his head. Voices being carried on a light breeze which he could feel caressing
his face and blowing through his hair.
He could feel it.
No light as yet, just blessed sound and feeling. He raised a hand and ran
it through his hair where the breeze had touched it and was grateful to feel it
slipping through his fingers. The air was filled now with the sound of children
playing, still someway off in the darkness but getting louder as he listened.
And he could smell the slight hint of a summers day, which grew stronger
second by second, the unmistakable scent of freshly cut grass mixed with the
smell of half a dozen types of flowers, none of which he could name.
The children were shouting excitedly; “Run, Run!” followed by a peel of
grown up laughter. The breath caught in Charlie's throat as more shouts and
laughter erupted, tears sprang instantly to his still sightless eyes. He didn't
need to see the children to know who they were. This was a scene he had
revisited many times before in dreams. A lost moment of happiness from
years ago.
“You're out!!” A girl shouted.
“Kate...” Charlie breathed.
Then a boy protesting; “No way!” Followed by more laughter.
Twelve year old Charles Walker junior, bowled out at cricket by his sister.
Voices from the past, made all too real somehow.
“Oh, God,” he choked. “This can't be...”
Laughter, grownups joining in the fun. Charlie recognized his Uncle
Benny's voice jokingly telling him not to worry, that he wouldn't tell anyone
he'd just been bowled out by a girl. Then a ripple of applause for his sister.
“How...” Was all Charlie could say, his voice thick with emotion. Now he
knew for sure he could feel again because his heart was breaking, and he
could feel the tears pouring down his cheeks.
“It's all smoke and mirrors.” Randall said from close by. “Say, is that
barbeque I smell?”
165
Charlie couldn't speak so he just nodded. A useless gesture in this
endless void but he just couldn't find his voice again as the memories flooded
his brain threatening to over load it completely. It was so real he could
almost taste the steak cooking nearby.
A pinprick of light appeared way off in the distance. Although it was the
merest dot in the nothingness, the endless darkness lightened a touch and as
his eyes began to adjust to this new sensation Charlie could make out vague
shapes in the gloom around him. Was that the hint of a tree he could see?
Shifting shadows moving back and forth, little more than smudges of grey
against the black, but if he concentrated he could make out they were half
formed figures, little more than outlines, the rumour of substance really but
growing more substantial moment by moment.
Charlie felt something between the toes of his bare feet and looked
down to see he was standing on grass, he moved his foot over the top of the
blades and sure enough they tickled his sole. The sensation, coming as it did
so close on the back of numbness was electrifying.
That's when the pinprick of light exploded flooding Charlie’s starved
vision into over load, instantly illuminating the scene all around him in vivid
detail.
He cried out and instinctively threw his arms up to protect his eyes. The
sudden contrast to the darkness hit him like an almost physical assault, he
reeled back a step and nearly lost his footing. “Jesus... Jesus.” But gradually
as he stood there panting, his vision began to adjust so he could slowly lower
his arms and gingerly open his eyes. Even before they could take it all in,
Charlie Walker knew exactly where he was.
Charlie was standing in his Uncle Benny's garden on a bright summer’s
day, looking across the lawn at his twelve year old self paying cricket with his
twin sister, Kate and his Dad. Seeing his Dad in better, healthier times just
compounded how ill he had looked the last time Charlie went to see him in
that God awful hospital. He couldn't help but smile as his Dad bowled a tame
underarm throw to his sister who was standing in front of the wicket holding
the oversized bat awkwardly in both hands, she swung wildly and hit the ball,
more out of luck than judgment.
“Catch it!” Young Charlie shouted from his place behind the wicket, but
his Dad dived theatrically at what should have been an easy catch and just
166
missed as the ball bounced away and into a nearby flower bed. “Dad!?” The
youngster protested as his sister squealed in delight and set off running.
“Oh, Christ,” Charlie had to look away. The whole scene was just so hyper
real, a waking dream the colours of which were a little too vivid, the sound,
though clear was just a frame or two out of sync, slightly bassy and laced with
reverb. It was like watching a dodgy DVD knock off of a favourite movie he
had seen a million times before.
The sunlight filtering through the bright green trees felt real enough and
Charlie hadn't realized just how warm it was on his upturned face until he felt
a coldness creep up behind him and linger just over his shoulder.
“So, this is what you dream about so often?” Randall said, his voice like
everything else here just the wrong side of real. Charlie nodded once more
transfixed by the game being played out in front of him. “Quite the scene of
domestic bliss,” the American continued. “Only in dreams, huh?”
“No,” Charlie protested. “All this really happened. This is... Was real.”
“Real?”
“Yes!” Charlie finally turned to Randall, who looked like a dark shadow in
this Technicolor landscape, and was about to protest further when he caught
sight of two other people sitting on deck chairs on a patio by the house just
behind the American slightly obscured, as if deliberately for effect, by his
body.
Charlie was vaguely aware that Randall smiled seeing his reaction but his
attention was focus on the spectators. Jesus God how could he have
forgotten about them? Randall stepped aside, firstly to reveal his favourite
Uncle, Benny clapping and shouting encouragement to the players, and then
further still to reveal Uncle Benny's only sister.
“Mum.” The word caught like a stone in Charlie's throat. Then an
instant later he was on his knees in the grass before he even felt like falling,
the shock taking his legs right from under him.
He heaved as the shock turned to nausea and tasted bile at the back of
his throat. Of course she was here as she always was when he dreamed this
place. But seeing her in such vivid detail robbed him of both balance and
167
breath in a broken heartbeat. He gasped and shook his head which made
him swoon all the more, but still managed a curse. “You bastard.”
“Why always this day?” Randall wanted to know, he was towering over
Charlie now his features half drawn and colourless.
“We, we were happy then,” Charlie gasped. It was all too real now, he
could even smell the grass up close as he sucked in lungful after lungful of air.
“Don't you really want to know why this place and time?” Randall asked
and drifted over to where Uncle Benny and his beloved Mother where sitting.
“Don't you touch her!” Charlie shouted, surprised at the venom in his
own voice. He hauled himself to his feet.
“It's okay,” Randall said as he knelt down in front of Charlie's Mother.
“We're just observers here Charlie, I couldn't touch her even if I wanted to.”
The American smiled as Charlie's Mother burst out laughing at young
Charlie's outrage at his Father's blatant cheating. At the time he remembered
his Mother's laughter as music, but now, here with the memory of what was
to come, it sounded like loss and left a bitter feeling in the pit of his stomach.
A once beautiful sound decayed by her soon to be revealed on coming death.
Charlie felt his legs threaten to give way again but my sheer force of will
he managed to stagger over to the patio and dropped to his knees next to
Randall who seemed to be closely studying her beautiful face. She laughed
again and Charlie was almost physically sick with grief.
“Do you want to know what I can see?” Randall asked Charlie as he
leaned forwards until he was within a foot of his Mothers face. For a horrible
moment, Charlie thought that Randall was moving to kiss her, but he just
looked at her frowning. “Huh?” He added getting no response, but Charlie
barely heard him. Now he was this close to her, he was lost in her brown
eyes.
The collector let the moment play out, son and beloved lost mother so
close together again, it was so bitter he could almost taste it. Then as the
seconds bled by he actually thought he heard Charlie's heart break. Now that
was a beat you could dance to.
“I can see what's really going on,” Randall finally said, his voice as light as
smoke. “Deep down, under the surface of all this bliss.” Charlie let out a sob
168
and gave the slightest shake of his head. “Look at her face Charlie, smiling, so
happy. Why this moment?”
The repeated question dragged Charlie away from his Mother’s eyes, he
turned to Randall and answered. “This is my happiest moment,” he said, then
added without thinking; “Before it all went bad.”
The beginning of the end.
“Come on, look at her face, closely. What do you see?” Randall asked.
It was an easy demand to obey, he looked back at her. “There's nothing
there. Just happiness.”
“There!” Randall exclaimed. “That look, deep within her eyes.”
“No!” Charlie suddenly felt chilled to the bone. He had caught the
merest hint of something in her eyes, something he had never noticed before.
Had he? Something... Desolate. “I didn't see anything,” he lied.
“You saw it! Plain as day.”
“Bullshit!” Charlie desperately wanted to turn away, to forget he'd seen
anything but love in those eyes but he couldn't. “She's just a little tired that's
all.”
“Now who's bullshitting? Let's watch it again, then tell me she's just
tired.” Randall passed the palm of his hand over Charlie's Mother's face and
for a heartbeat everything froze, sound, vision, it was as if he had hit the
pause button on this nightmare movie Charlie was starring in. When Randall
brought his hand away everything had skipped back a fraction.
“Randall, please,” Charlie said weakly, he couldn't bear to see that look
again, not so close, not from a million miles away. He bit down hard on his lip
to suppress the fresh round of sobs that were bubbling up in his throat and
tasted blood for it. But still he couldn't look away as that shadow bloomed
deep within her eyes again, but this time it was clear, right in front of him in
all its sickening high definition horror.
It was death.
“Please,” Charlie breathed. “Stop this.”
“Stop what?” Randall goaded. “You said you didn't see anything.”
169
“Fuck you!” Charlie screamed and tore himself away from her. He rose
unsteadily to his feet and stumbled away. “Bastard!”
Randall didn't move he just looked deeper into her eyes. “Come on
Charlie, look into her eyes.”
“No, God damn it.” He looked away and across the lawn, anywhere but
at her and the unmasked decay in her face. He saw his Dad pick up Kate and
swing her around much to her delight. It almost warmed his frozen heart but
then he caught sight of his young self still standing behind the wicket. The
boy was looking at his Mother sitting there and could quite clearly see
through the vail of happiness to that horrible darkness Charlie himself had
just glimpsed. The kid could see the shadow of death falling across her face.
He was frowning, all thought of the game gone for a moment. Charlie froze.
The boy had seen it, Charlie aged twelve had seen what was coming all
those years ago. How could he have forgotten? Had he not known at the
time what it meant but somehow buried it deep within his subconscious only
for this bastard of a yank to unlock it here in this living nightmare?
“Charlie?” It was his Father, both of them, man and boy looked his way.
“Come here Mate,” he beckoned the boy over. Charlie almost took a step
towards him his self, but stop as the boy, all thoughts of death forgotten
broke into a grin and sprinted over to his Dad before rugby tackling him to
the floor where they rolled about in a play fight.
“You did that on purpose!” the twelve year old protested as they rolled
around on the grass.
“Jesus,” Charlie watched all this though tears, he screwed his eyes tight
shut and pressed his hands over his ears to block out the laughter which was
cutting through him like a knife. “Get out of by head!” He screamed at the top
of his lungs. But even with his eyes shut, those two devastating looks, his
Mother’s and his young self were seared onto his mind’s eye.
So clear now. That was why he dreamt this moment, not the calm before
the storm as he had always thought. It was the moment young Charlie
Walker saw death in his mother's eyes. Saw the very instant the revolution in
her cells erupted as the cancer was born. The battle for her life thereafter
would be swift and decisive. She would be dead mere months later and
170
Charlie had seen it all begin. A long since buried memory he had been trying
to suppress ever since. But it had taken a dark soul like Randall's to bring it to
shattering life.
He opened his eyes again but already the scene was beginning to fade.
“Revelation is a wonderful thing,” Charlie vaguely heard Randall say as he
was swallowed up once more by the darkness. And this time he was thankful
for it.
Sweet oblivion, the part of Charlie that had been ravaged by Randall's so
called revelation didn't want the darkness to ever end.
“Just relax now Charlie, remember this is all just a dream.”
This time he heard the words as clear as day, spoken by his tormentor
not inside his head but somewhere close in the void just as he could hear his
own ragged breathing. “Just a dream,” he said.
In time the black became grey and the grey melted back into the relative
reality of the hotel room. There was a moment of disorientation then as
senses gradually returned he realized he was still laid on the sofa, staring up
at the ceiling. He swung his legs and sat up to see Randall sitting in the chair
opposite.
“Fuck,” was all he could say.
“How could you have known?” Randall asked softly leaning forward so
the meagre light from the window caught his face again. “How could you
have known that was the moment your mother got cancer?”
Charlie rubbed his throbbing temples, his head was pounding so hard it
felt ready to split clean in two. “I couldn't have.”
“Yet you did.”
“For fuck sake, no!” Charlie got to his feet and turned away from Randall,
he moved over to the window and pushed the curtains aside, dawn was still
some way off and with it any hope of an end to this nightmare.
“And you know something else?” Randall continued behind him. Charlie
heard him stand and move closer.
171
At that moment he gave half a thought to jumping straight out of the
window, anything to avoid more of his questions. “Please,” he pleaded, but
Randall would not be silenced.
“You've seen it again. Haven't you?” The pavement, three floors down
was looking more and more inviting to Charlie.
“That exact same look,” Randall continued, his voice little more than a
whisper, he no more than three feet from Charlie now. “This time in your
dad.”
Charlie suddenly felt faint, he had to rest his hands on the cold window
pane.
“Call me a liar.”
Fuck it! Charlie thought and swung out an elbow to smack the yank
square in the face and to hell with the consequences, but even though he was
sure Randall was directly behind him, his blow failed to connect with anything
but thin air. He turned around, ready to dodge any counter attack, but was
shocked to see Randall was still sitting in the chair, his features half masked
by shadow with a look of mild amusement on his dimly lit face.
“For God’s sake...” Charlie's shoulders sagged as the last of his energy
drained out of him. “I can't take this anymore... If I'm asleep, for Christ sakes
just let me sleep.”
“You know deep down your Dad is going to die in that hospital.” Randall
finally got to his feet. Close to collapse as he was, Charlie wasn't going to
take his eyes off him his time as he spoke, so he knew exactly where he was.
“You saw it, didn't you?” Randall insisted. “That look in his eyes. That's why
you don't like visiting him. That's the real reason you can't tell him you're not
an estate agent.”
“How...?” Charlie's voice trailed off, no need to ask how he knew, he
knew everything, even his darkest dreams and what they meant.
“I know you,” Randall said and slowly began to move around the sofa
and over to where Charlie was standing. Charlie instinctively moved away
matching him step for step to keep his distance. “And what would you say, if
I told you I could stop it happening?”
“I'd say you were full of shit,” Charlie spat back at him.
172
“Lesson number one, Charlie. The world is not quite as you thought it
was. Some of us can change things. Inevitable things.”
“I don't believe you!” Charlie gave a start as he felt his back touch the
wall. He was quite literally cornered.
“I can help you Charlie,” the tone of Randall's voice was seduction itself
wrapped in the darkness of the room. “Or help you help yourself.”
“Why would you?” Charlie was light headed, he felt like he was floating,
he glanced at his feet just to make sure they were still on the floor.
“Maybe I'm an angel,” Randall said and stopped three feet from Charlie.
“Well... Are you?”
“Of sorts, I guess,” Randall said with a shrug. “Just not in the
conventional sense.” He paused, thinking then added. “I'm kind of a dark
angel.” He nodded to himself, Randall liked the sound of that.
Charlie slid down the wall until his backside hit the carpet. “Christ, I'm so
tired.” All he wanted to do now was sleep, or die, either would be better than
this state of tormented limbo half way between both. Neither came, so tears
would have to do for now.
Randall looked down at Charlie was he wept. There was no doubt he felt
something in the kid, that 'spark' for want of a better word. He had
undoubted potential but Randall knew now wasn't the time or place, or even
if he could unlock that potential given a chance. But more than that he finally
realized why it was he had come here tonight, to drag the kid through an
emotional blender.
Not to recruit him, or even to cause him casual cruelty (Which under
normal circumstances would have been reason enough). It was to find in him
that moment; the one Randall had searched so hard and so far in vain to find
in his own past.
That forgotten catalyst that had started him on this wild and surreal ride
he was on. On many occasions Randall had doubted there was one, but this
was vindication that his search wasn't folly. Charlie had one, a look and the
knowledge of what lay behind it was all it had taken.
So somewhere, deep down Randall had his, lost for now in the darkest
recesses of his mind, but one day, even if it took to the end of time itself he
173
would find it, and with it would come a meaning to all this, of that he was
sure.
“Randall!”
The collector felt Ishrel enter the room behind him a split second before
he spoke, which gave him just enough time to picture him once more as
Sherlock Holmes in a cheap Halloween mask. He turned around and sure
enough there stood the famous detective. Ishrel took a step, then looked
down at himself and gave a sign of dismay that Randall knew he would never
tire of.
“Really?” The demon said. “Are we still doing this?”
“You know you like it,” Randall replied. Besides he thought it he always
found it much easier than trying to concentrate on that floating heat haze
form Ishrel favoured if left to his own devices.
“What are you doing here?” Ishrel asked nodding towards the prone
Charlie. “I thought you were leaving this one alone?”
As Ishrel spoke, Charlie suddenly cursed. “Fuck!” he grasped his head, his
face a mask of pain. “What was that?”
Both Randall and Ishrel turned to Charlie in astonishment. “You heard
that?” Randall asked.
“Impossible!” Ishrel dismissed.
“Ow, fuck!” Charlie winced in pain again. “There it was again. What the
hell was that?” He held his head as if it was going to split open.
“What did you hear?” Randall asked.
“Something,” Charlie let out a sharp breath. He tried to make sense of
what he had heard. It was almost a feeling more than a sound. “Sounded
like... Hard to describe.. Felt more like, Christ I dunno... Felt like nails down a
fucking black board.” That was close enough. Nails scraped down a black
board but heard through a thousand watt speaker stack.
“Hmm, interesting.” Proof positive Randall was right about Charlie.
“Randall...” Ishrel fidgeted behind Randall clearly not happy about this
latest turn of events, he was about to speak again, but Randall silenced him
with the wave of a hand as Charlie flinched again.
174
“Nails down a black board? Couldn't have put it better myself,” Randall
agreed.
“Yeah,” Charlie said weakly his face slick with sweat, he was so exhausted
now he could barely speak. He looked fit to pass out from the pain Ishrel's
words were causing him. Pass out or worse, after all his heart was only
human.
“Except...” Charlie continued with great effort. “Sounds mad, but I could
have sworn I almost heard...” He shook his head in disbelief, but still added.
“Words.”
“I knew it!” Randall exclaimed with a clap of the hands, he spun around
to Ishrel who was shifting nervously from one foot to the other. “I knew I was
right about this one. He can hear you.”
“This is going too far, Collector,” Ishrel said putting his hands on his hips
rather camply. “Even for you. I can tell you've shown this one too much
already. Kill him and let us be gone.”
“Jesus!” Charlie yelled. “There it is again. Christ make it stop!” He tried
to push himself up against the wall but half way between sitting and standing
his legs turned to jelly and he slid back down. “Sounds like, sounds like a
voice!” He scanned the darkened room for any sign of the phantom speaker
but could find no one else. He looked up at Randall with blood shot eyes.
“What's this?” He said bitterly through gritted teeth. “Another mind fuck,
Randall?”
“No, not this time.” Randall replied. “This one's quite real. Well, I say
real...”
“Randall, don't you...” Ishrel warned but was cut off mid threat.
“Charlie Walker, meet Ishrel. Ishrel, meet...”
“ENOUGH!” Ishrel's voice exploded out of his comic form with real
power this time, even laced with emotion, rage. And Randall knew he had
crossed the line, he even thought for a brief moment the exclamation had
made the floor vibrate beneath his feet.
The sheer force of Ishrel's voice may have startled Randall, but it damn
near killed Charlie. He screamed in pain and covered his ears in a vain
attempt to block out the cacophony.
175
Mental note, mused Randall. Don't push the little shit too far. If he could
ever actually influence the outside world you will never hear the last of it.
“Okay,” he said holding out his hands in surrender. “That would be my bad as
the kids say.”
The demon pointed a bony finger at Randall. “You do not mention my
name in the presence of the likes of his kind.”
“Okay, take it easy Holmes,” Randall said and was thankful whatever
effect Ishrel seemed to have on the real world had passed.
Ishrel turned his masked face to the cowering Charlie, who was curled up
in a ball now, all sanity seemingly gone. He was shaking his head and
muttering incoherently to himself.
“The other one has led me to Whitaker,” the demon said. “I have no
doubt we can find McCulloch through him. Enough of your games, Randall.
We no longer need this one. Kill him and the other when he returns.” Death
sentence given Ishrel turned away.
“Shame,” Randall lamented and knelt next to the shivering young man. “I
could have taught this one.”
“No you couldn't!” Ishrel said without turning back. “It is not your place,
or mine for that matter to choose or train potential collectors. Now get on
with it. Make it quick or slow, it's your choice.”
“Huh, too kind,” Randall said, but he had already made up his mind what
he was going to do. And it had surprised and disturbed him in equal
measure. Charlie flinched slightly as Randall gently pressed his hand on the
back of his head, just at the base of the skull as he had done before. Randall
bent close to the trembling man's ear. “Remember Charlie,” he whispered.
“It's all just a bad dream.”
TWENTY-FIVE
Stupid, stupid, stupid!! The further he got away from Tommy Whitaker's
madness the more Bill Fraker cursed himself for the way he had reacted. He
was just thankful Charlie or any of the other boys had not been there to
176
witness him stumbling away from the place like a scared teenager. So
unprofessional, now he was in the familiar territory of his own car he was just
plain embarrassed about it all.
Fraker pulled the car into a parking space in the hotel’s underground car
park and switched off the engine. Then he just sat there contemplating his
next move. He kept going back to the Lawyer. It was as if he was radiating
fear, and at the time Fraker had got a damn good dose of it, but now that he
was away from him he could look at the whole situation through a calm
collected, rational eye.
Whitaker was a grade A nut job, you could take that to the bank, but the
real question was, Why? Was he simply a man driven out of his mind through
fear for his life? That was understandable and above all (which Fraker liked) a
perfectly normal reaction. Or was it as the man himself had put it; through
the fear for his very soul.
No for Christ sake, that was just bollocks. Wasn't it? The yank was a hit
man, nothing more. But in the end did it really matter? He had to get Charlie
and get out of all this, and he was sure in a couple of days he would be able
to laugh about all this heaven and hell shit Whitaker was spouting and it
would make a great anecdote to bore the boys with, with the admittance of
his stumbling exit or course.
First things first, he would have to slip the phone number Whitaker had
given him under Randall's door and then get Charlie and get out, preferably
without bumping into the yank, that was a conversation he didn't want, just in
case (again he would laugh about this later) there was some truth in
Whitaker's ramblings.
Besides he had no reason to come after them, not with Whitaker in the
bag. Fraker and Charlie weren't important in all this, sure they were on the
edge of something big, something weird, but it was like Whitaker had put it, it
wasn't too late for them to get out of this unscathed, 'untainted.' Fraker got a
flash of the fear in Whitaker's eyes at the word, and it sent a chill down his
spine.
Stupid, stupid, Stupid. Fraker smacked his leg and told himself to get a
grip, then got out of the car. He cursed himself not for the first time tonight
but put it down to tiredness this time. It was nearly four in the morning and
the car park was deathly quiet except for his footfalls as he made his way
177
passed the rows of outrageously expensive cars and over to the car park’s lift
at the far end. Just a few more minutes now and he would be dragging
Charlie back down here and the two of them could get gone and leave
Randall to it.
It was then, just as he reached the lift, that every car alarm in the car park
went off. Fraker cried out loud in shock and fell with his back against the
unopened lift doors, barely managing to keep his footing. “Fuck me!” he
shouted but the words were swallowed up by the deafening alarms bouncing
off the concrete walls around him.
Suddenly he toppled backwards as the lift doors opened and he fell flat
on his back which knocked the wind out of him. Then to add insult to injury
hit his head hard on the lifts cold metal floor. Flecks of lights danced in front
of Fraker's eyes as unconsciousness beckoned but the shock of the blow and
the freezing lift floor on his back pulled him back from the brink of oblivion.
A dark shape loomed over him and Fraker looked up and into Randall's face
looking down on him.
Fuck.
The collector smiled and casually stepped over him and walked off into
the car park carrying his suitcase. The moment he did so the alarms silenced.
“Thanks for your help, Bill,” Randall said without looking around. “I'll be
stealing your car by the way, if that's okay.”
Before the befuddled Fraker could muster a response the lift doors
closed and it started to climb. Fraker patted his trouser pocket for his car
keys and wasn't surprised to find that they had gone. 'Explain that one away,
Mister rational.’ “Fucking hell,” he said sitting up. “Fucking Hell.” Fraker
glanced at the row of buttons next to the door, floor three, their floor was
already lit. After a moment the lift stopped and the doors opened with a
gentle 'ping'.
Back in the car park, Randall got into the car and fired up the engine, he
adjusted the rear view mirror until he could see Sherlock Holmes wearing a
cheap Halloween mask sitting in the back seat. “D'you think the car alarm
thing was too much?” He asked.
178
“Actually I thought that was rather good,” Ishrel replied, much to
Randall's surprise. “I suppose scaring him half to death is better than nothing
at all.
“Complements Ishrel, from you?” Randall remarked as he pulled away
and headed towards the exit, making sure he clipped an especially expensive
Ferrari on the way out as he did so. “I must be slipping.”
“Hmm,” The demon replied settling back in the seat. “I still think you
should have killed them both.”
“Yeah, I kinda surprised myself with that one.” Randall replied truthfully,
if he was honest he didn't know why he hadn't killed Charlie, perhaps there
really was some connection between them, or perhaps the answer was just
simply that he was getting soft, spending so much time in the company of
mortals.
He shook his head clear of such thoughts and added. “But hey, don't
worry, you'll have your blood before it gets light. Oceans of it.” And with this
Randall stomped on the gas and the car sped away through the sleeping city
streets and one step closer to the elusive Larry McCulloch.
“Charlie, shit!” Fraker dragged himself to his feet and staggered out of
the lift and into the corridor, he stumbled down it like a drunk man, using first
one wall and then the other for support as he pin-balled towards their room
at the end. As he got closer the breath caught in Fraker's throat seeing the
door was ajar. He steadied himself as best he could before going in, steeling
himself to what he might find inside.
“Charlie?” He called out but got no reply, “Shit,” there was nothing for it
he had to go in. Fraker nudged open the door all the way with his shoulder
and not for the first time tonight he wished he had the Berreta, Christ only
knew what the yank had left behind. He moved inside. The room was in near
darkness, Fraker fumbled for the light switch on the wall to his left and turned
it on expecting a blood bath.
Fraker sighed audibly with relief, Charlie was sitting on the sofa with his
head in his hands. “Charlie?” Fraker came into the room which was mercifully
all intact and walked slowly over to where Charlie was sitting, who was also
mercifully in one piece and blood free.
179
As he approached the young man, Walker looked up, even though he
was unscathed Fraker couldn't help but gasp at his pallid exhausted features.
His normally ruddy cheeks were totally drained of colour and for a moment all
Charlie did was look at him blankly as if he was a stranger, Fraker opened his
mouth to speak but then a look of recognition floored Charlie’s blank face.
“Bill?” he said weakly as if still a little unsure he was real.
“It's me mate,” Fraker replied. And the moment Charlie heard his friend’s
voice he broke down in tears. Fraker rushed over and knelt next to Charlie
and wrapped his arms round him. “It's okay, Charlie,” Fraker said fighting his
own tears. “I've got you, I've got you.” He screwed his eyes tight shut and
offered a prayer of thanks to any passing deity who might be listening.
“Oh, Bill... I,” Charlie sobbed into Fraker's shoulder rendering the rest of
the sentence incoherent. Fraker held him closer and let him cry it out.
“It's okay, let it out, I'm here, you're safe now. Just take a sec', let it all
out.” His voice cracked with emotion, tears streaming down his own cheeks
now. He just couldn't believe how relieved he was Charlie was okay and in
one piece. The kid was scared shitless and in shock, but a quick look over him
showed he was physically at least unharmed.
“Phew!” Charlie gently pushed Fraker away and wiped the tears from his
cheeks, he smile weakly obviously a little embarrassed but seemed almost
relieved to see Fraker had been crying as well. The older man playfully
rubbed his hair messing it up, usually that would have brought a howl of
protest from Charlie but not tonight.
“Christ, Mate,” Fraker said awkwardly. “I thought maybe...” Before he
could finish Charlie smiled and nodded. Fraker didn't have to say it, both of
them knew only too well how this could all have turned out.
“Shit,” Charlie suddenly grew serious; he looked around the room
frantically. “Where's Randall?”
“It's okay,” Fraker patted Charlie's arm reassuringly. “He's gone.”
“You sure?” Charlie got to his feet still taking in the room as if expecting
the yank to appear from behind the curtains or something.
“Absolutely,” Fraker said standing up, his knees crack alarmingly making
him wince. “I, erm, I bumped into him in the car park.”
180
“What happened?”
“Nothing, well...” He thought about telling about the car alarms but
decided it wouldn't make any sense, besides he could see Charlie was shaking
again. “Charlie, sit down eh?”
The young man didn't seem to hear, he rubbed the back of his head
frowning and looked at his hand as if expecting to see something on it.
“Fuck,” he spat out, his teeth were literally chattering. It was a look Fraker had
seen before, Charlie was still in shock and if anything had a look in his eyes
similar to Tommy Whitaker, which almost broke the older man’s heart.
“What did he do to you? Fraker asked.
Charlie finally looked at him and exhaled. He shook his head and took a
moment to collect his muddled thoughts. “I, Christ, it's hard to,” he kicked
the table in frustration. “He was... He was here,” he gestured around the
room. “I think, maybe.” He wrinkled his nose then forced himself to look Bill
in the eyes. “But he was also... Inside my head, Bill.” He shrugged knowing
how weird that sounded, but Fraker just nodded.
Christ knew it wasn't the strangest thing Fraker had heard tonight.
Charlie wrapped his arms around himself, he was really shaking now,
tears welled in his eyes, but he blinked them away. “Fucking freak!” He said,
rubbing the back of his head again.
“Well, he's gone now mate. Trust me.”
“I hope you're right.”
“Y'know?” Fraker said. “I really think we dodged a bullet here tonight,
Charlie.”
Charlie nodded. “Yeah, something's... Something's really wrong here,
Bill.”
“No shit.” Fraker said, then he just had to ask. “Charlie, you said Randall
was inside your head?”
The young man cringed, his eyes seemed to glaze over somewhat as he
thought back. Fraker was about to tell him it didn't matter, anything to get
that haunted look off his face when Charlie spoke. “Bill Mate...” He looked
ready to spill it all but then obviously changed his mind an instant later. “Let's
181
just say, you wouldn't believe me if I told you.” He shook the memory off
with a shake of the head. “Even if I was only dreaming half of it.”
In truth Fraker was thankful of Charlie's reticence. He he'd had more
than enough strangeness for one night.
“Tell me,” Charlie said, breaking the silence. “When exactly did we end
up in the twilight zone?” He smiled, it was weak but still it lit up his weary
face.
“Dunno Mate,” Fraker replied. “But this yank seems to have that effect on
a lot of people.” With this he went through into his bedroom eager to be
away from all this. “Get your gear together, Charlie. We're off.”
“God I love you, Bill,” Charlie shouted through from the other room. “But
what about the boss?”
Fraker took his suitcase and put it on the bed. “Don't worry about that,
I'll clear it with the old man in the morning.” He began to unceremoniously
toss his clothes into the case.
“Bill?” Fraker turned to see Charlie in the doorway. He was starting to
look half way human again and Fraker knew that thankfully that meant the
wise cracks wouldn't be too far away. He missed them, and that was proof
positive about how messed up things were. But for now, Charlie was still
gravely serious, it didn't suit him.
“Yes mate.”
“Did you find Whitaker?”
“Yeah Charlie, I did.”
“What did he say?”
“Like you said. You wouldn't believe me if I told you.”
Charlie frowned, he knew only too well. It took him a few seconds before
he asked. “What is he, Bill?”
Fraker closed his suitcase and snapped the clasps shut. “Randall?”
Charlie nodded. “I really don't know. And right at this moment, I don't care.
Whatever he is...” he paused at this. 'Whatever?' Poor choice of word William
(Or was it?). “Whoever his is,” Fraker corrected himself for sanities sake.
“Whitaker was beyond scared of him. And we are best out of it.”
182
He looked at the shadow that was Charlie Walker still standing in the
doorway. He had never been what you would call bulky at the best of times
but right now he seemed almost skeletal. “You okay Charlie? Really I mean?”
“Dunno,” Charlie said plainly with a shrug. “But I'll be a lot better when
we are away from here.”
“Me too, mate.” Fraker agreed and went through into the bathroom to
collect his toiletries. When he returned Charlie was still hovering by the door.
“I, I gotta go see my Dad.” He said. Choking back tears. “I've gotta tell
him, everything.”
“Christ, you sure?” Fraker asked and put his wash bag in the side pocket
of his case.
Charlie nodded, his eyes glistening with fresh tears. He rubbed the back
of his head again and his eyes drifted off into space, Fraker could see the
beginnings of a thousand yard stare in them.
“Well that's good,” Fraker said positively and a little louder than needed
in an attempted to pull Charlie back into the present. It seemed to work.
“Yeah, it's time,” Charlie said, then added barely audibly. “Before it's too
late.”
Hey, come on now,” Fraker went over to him and put his hands on his
bony shoulders. He tried to give him a reassuring smile, but something deep
in Charlie's eyes slapped it right off his face. Now that he was up close he
could see there was a kind of coldness to them. Something he had never
seen in them before and it scared him.
“You okay?” He asked voice was trembling slightly.
“I really don't know, Bill.” Charlie replied honestly. He blinked and the
tears ran down his cheeks. “Randall really messed with my head. I can't
remember half of what he said... But still, there's this feeling he left in me.”
He struggled to find the right word, but it wouldn't come.
Fraker squeezed his friend’s shoulders. Charlie didn't need to say it. It
was as plain as day in his eyes.
Dread.
183
He patted Charlie hard on the shoulders and tore himself away and back
to his suitcase on the bed. “Don't worry about it,” he said as nonchalantly as
he could. “Trust me, it'll all seem better in the morning, when we're away
from all this bizarreness. It's got us thinking all kinds of bollocks.” He pulled
his suitcase off the bed and together they both went through into the main
room.
“Get your stuff, Charlie,” Fraker said and threw his suitcase onto the sofa.
“We are out of here in five.”
“Yeah, will do.” Charlie disappeared through into his room leaving Fraker
alone. He sat down next to his suitcase and rubbed his tired eyes. One hell
of a night he thought to himself and glanced over to the mini bar. A shot of
whiskey wouldn't go a miss right now, and Christ it wasn't as if he would have
to drive anywhere now that Randall had the car. He was still debating with
himself when Charlie came back into the room with his case.
“Ready,” he announced.
Now Fraker knew things had taken a turn for the surreal. It usually took
Charlie hours to pack, and that was just his hair products. Fraker got to his
feet and dragged his suitcase off the sofa. He took a final look around the
room to make sure they had everything. “You know, I never thought I'd say
this. But I feel damn sorry for Larry McCulloch and any other poor bastard
who's on Randall's shit list.”
Both men headed for the door.
“Just as long as it doesn't include us,” Charlie said as they left the room,
and hopefully this wonderful world of weirdness behind them for good.
“Amen to that,” Fraker replied and closed the door on their part in the
whole sorry episode.
TWENTY-SIX
Mobile phones are bad for your health. It's a debate, with many wellargued pros and cons that has raged for almost as long as the devise has
existed. And one that will no doubt continue until they are long since
184
obsolete and the next technological wonder comes along to seduce mankind
a fresh.
It's a question that may never fully be answered, unless you asked a
certain out of favour lawyer if mobile phones are bad for you. Because, in the
end Tommy Whitaker's mobile phone would play a pivotal role in his ultimate
downfall, in more ways than one.
Firstly, it was the main reason he was still in his God forsaken hotel room,
when by any measure of common sense he should have been well away from
the place the instant Bill Fraker had left. And he would have been to were it
not for his precious mobile phone’s all but empty battery. It was so close to
dying that he had to keep it plugged into the wall socket while he was
booking his ticket out of this mess.
Tommy paced the threat bare carpet of his room, as best the wire to his
charger would allow, and cursed out loud as he was put on hold for the
umpteenth time as he desperately tried to book a plane ticket out of England
and with luck to safety.
“Sorry sir,” the thick Scottish accented kid on the other end said as he
came back off hold. “But where did you want to fly to again?”
“Anywhere,” Whitaker snapped. “Spain, France, Italy. Christ Timbuktu for
all I care.”
“Erm, we have an early morning flight available to Crete? I heard it's very
nice, even at this time of year.”
“Great, book that.” Whitaker balanced the phone between his cheek and
shoulder as he fumbled in his jacket pocket, which was hanging on the back
of a chair, for his credit card.
“Do you require insurance, sir?” The kid asked helpfully.
That almost made Whitaker laugh out loud. He doubted a budget airline
provided the sort of insurance he needed right now. “No,” he told the call
centre drone on the other end, finally finding his credit card.
“Return?” The kid asked.
“Christ no.”
“I'll just get you our best price, sir. Please hold.”
185
“No!.. Shit!” The kid was gone, replaced by what sounded vaguely like
Vivaldi but played on a child's Bontempi home organ. Whitaker could almost
hear the composer turning in his grave. “Fuck it!” He cursed and eyed his
beloved credit card, his life saver. He had no friends left and even less hope,
but one thing he would always have was money. Money didn't give a shit
who was after you, didn't care what was in it for itself. It just was. Bucket
loads of the stuff floating around in the virtual world of on line banking, just
numbers really with pound signs in front, they were all he had left. And so be
it.
Now that he had the makings of a plan, Whitaker allowed himself to
believe he might just get out of all this with his balls intact. The near suicidal
gloom that had descended over him, brought on by that fat bastard Fraker's
visit, was starting to lift little by little and he could see a future, dim for sure,
but getting brighter, starting to shine through. Jesus, who knows he might
actually live long enough to spend some of his only friend money on
something other than a desperate escape. He idly wondered, as Vivaldi
deformed twin droned on, if they needed any lawyers in Crete.
That was when the phone went dead.
“Shit! What the fuck?” At first he thought he must have pulled out the
charger wire with all his pacing but it was still intact, he lamely shook the
phone and pressed the 'on' button again but nothing happened. “Fuck it!”
He glanced around, the rooms light was still on so that ruled out a power cut.
He tried the button again, his hand was so slick with sweat the phone nearly
slipped out of his grasp, he wiped it on his trouser leg and pushed the on
button once more, this time he kept it pressed. “Come on, come on,” the
phone was obscenely expensive but it could still be temperamental, especially
when the battery was low.
“Yes!!” Whitaker let out a cry of relief as the display lit up. It had a full
signal again and one bar on the battery meter, that was good enough. He
pulled the wire out and grabbed his jacket. One bar was more than enough
power to phone back the call centre robot and book that flight to Crete, and
now he didn't need to do it from this dungeon.
He was about to hit the redial button when there were three heavy
knocks on the door.
186
Whitaker spun and faced the door and just managed to stifle the cry that
was escaping his mouth by literally clasping his hand over it. He held his
breath and listened. Had Fraker returned? And if so, was he alone?
Silence, but for his heart hammering ten to the dozen in his ears.
Whitaker slowly brought his hand away from his mouth, but only when he
was sure he wouldn't just scream involuntarily despite himself. That was
when he realized he could see his own breath misting in front of him when he
exhaled. The room had been cold at the best of times but the temperature
seemed to be dropping second by second. The sweat on his face turned to a
thin layer of ice on his skin.
“Jesus,” the word came out in a cloud. As he stood there shivering.
Bang, bang, bang. Three more impossibly loud knocks on the door
shattering the frozen silence. This time Whitaker cried out loud before he had
a chance to smother the noise.
“Oh, Jesus, oh Jesus, oh, Jesus.” The room was so cold now he half
expected the moisture in the air to turn to snow.
Outside in the corridor Randall smiled to himself. Ishrel however didn't
see the funny side at all.
“Oh Randall, for pity sake, won't you just smash the door in and get on
with this?”
Randall had his palms pressed against the paint chipped wood of the
door. It was a simple enough trick to suck all the heat out of the room, but
Ishrel's bleating in his ear broke his concentration. The collector pulled his
hand away in frustration.
“Ishrel!” He rubbed his hands together, they were tingling from the
power still surging through them.
“Well. I don't see why you don't just get on with it,” The demon
complained.
“You really are a vacuous little turd.” Randall turned to look at where
Ishrel was floating. As a reward for following Fraker and leading them here,
Randall had let the creature keep its preferred form, that of a shapeless heat
haze type distortion which floated at head height when it wasn't skulking
around his feet. A rare moment of charity he was already beginning to regret.
187
“Where's your sense of style?” He asked but it was a pointless question and
one he already knew the answer to; 'I don't follow you.'
“I don't follow you,” Ishrel duly echoed, nothing if not predictable.
Randall turned back to the door, he could feel the waves of fear from
inside radiating through the wood and it felt like sunshine on his face. He
knew Ishrel was incapable of such subtleties of feeling, but he didn't care.
Moments like this, moments to savour where lost on the demon. And Ishrel
hated him for it. Which was a bonus.
Randall lent forwards slightly and closing his eyes he rested his forehead
on the door, letting the fear wash over him.
“Randall!” said Ishrel.
“Tut, Okay.” Randall said testily and stepped back, the moment now well
and truly ruined. But in truth, Ishrel was right. Tommy Whitaker was only a
stepping stone, nothing more. He hammered on the door three more times.
“Tommy Whitaker,” he said in his best imposing voice of doom tone.
“Open this door.” He wasn't a hundred percent sure, but Randall thought he
heard a whimper from the other side. Either way the fear was fair flooding
through now.
Inside Whitaker's knees buckled and before he knew what had happened
he was on the floor. He curled himself up into the foetal position and
covered his face with his hands, like a child trying to hide from the boogey
man. In a futile 'if I can't see you, you can't see me' gesture. He lay there
shivering from cold and fear in equal measure when the boogey man outside
spoke again.
“Open the door Tommy. I won't ask again.”
The boogey man was angry and it knew his name. Whitaker dumbly
shook his head 'no', and silently prayed for it to go away.
But tonight God wasn't listening to Tommy Whitaker. He had been a bad
boy, and now it was time to pay.
The door exploded, silently, like all the sound had been sucked from the
room along with the heat, but with the force of a hand grenade showering
the room with a thousand splinters.
188
Outside Randall counted to ten, for dramatic effect, then stepped inside.
“Or don't,” he said entering and almost ruined a perfectly good entrance
by nearly tripping over the prone lawyer. He looked down at him. “Come on
Tommy, get up, huh?”
Whitaker was gasping for breath, his grubby white shirt was flecked with
dozens of tiny drop of blood from where the shards of door had hit him, they
bloomed as the blood seeped through the material. He didn't know it but he
was lucky he had been on the floor when the door exploded and not in the
direct path of the blast, the tiny wooden projectiles would have surely taken
his sight at the very least along with most of the flesh from his face.
“Oh, God... Oh, Jesus...” Was all he could muster in way of response to
Randall that was until he uncurled himself and then let out a scream of pain.
“Here. Let me help you,” Randall grabbed his collar an unceremoniously
dragged Whitaker to his feet, causing him to let out quite an impressive
scream especially from one so obviously exhausted.
Still gasping, Whitaker looked up at Randall in dismay as if only now
realizing he was actually there and not some phantom of his fear addled
imagination. “Oh, God,” he choked out. “It's all true.”
“'Friad so buddy,” Randall replied and without thinking dusted Whitaker
off causing the wounded man to wince violently. His legs threatened to give
out so Randall grabbed his arms to keep him upright. “Shit, sorry about that,”
Randall winced in sympathy seeing the pain on Whitaker's face. “That wasn't
such a good idea.” He gingerly let go of Whitaker's arms after he was sure he
wouldn't just keel over. The lawyer swayed slightly bit at least stayed on his
feet.
“It's all true,” Whitaker repeated his face was a mask of pain.
“All of it,” Randall stated. “But by the look of you, you knew that already.”
Whitaker nodded forlornly. Then his face suddenly straightened as if a
self-preservation switch had just clicked on in his brain. “Randall, wait,” he
licked his chapped lips searching for the right words. “I gave Fraker
McCulloch's number. That's all I have.” Then he actually held up his right
hand palm out. “I swear.”
“On your life?” Randall asked melodramatically.
189
“God yes,” Whitaker replied nodding like an idiot.
“Truth is Tom, the number on its own isn't any good to me...” How could
he put this? “I need someone with a personal connection to McCulloch to
make the call. That's how we trace him.”
It was the truth, Ishrel could follow the signal but only if it was laced with
emotion. Hate, fear worked best but something more than just a radio signal,
after all they weren't the CIA. That emotional connection between the two
ends would enabled Ishrel to surf the ether from Whitaker and nail
McCulloch's location.
“Sharks,” Whitaker said somewhat obliquely.
“Huh?” It took Randall a moment but then he got the ripples analogy.
“That's right,” he said brightly. “Ripples. All I need is for you to call him, I
have a colleague who can follow the ripples right to McCulloch. Then you can
go.”
Whitaker looked sullen. “I don't believe you.”
“Hmm,” Ishrel buzzed in Randall's ear. “He's not as stupid as he looks.”
“Hush now,” Randall said still looking at Whitaker.
“Huh?”
“Not you.”
Whitaker let out a slow breath and straightened himself up as best he
could, the motion obviously pained him but he bit back any reaction in his
face. “Will it be quick?” He asked, looking Randall firmly in the eyes.
“What? The call or your death?” He asked flatly.
The bluntness of the reply made Whitaker wince ever so slightly, more of
a twitch of the eye than anything, barely noticeable really especially
considering the subject matter and his hopeless situation. The man was
struggling to keep what dignity he had left, and much to Randall's admiration
he was managing to do just that. He must have been quite something in his
prime, Randall mused.
“Stop toying with him,” Ishrel interrupted. “He knows you are going to
kill him. I can smell it on him.”
190
It was true, they both knew clear as day only Randall would be walking
out of this room.
“Make the call,” Randall said softening his tone. “After that I'll send you
on your way. And yes, it will be quick.”
Tears filled Whitaker's eyes and he nodded.
The truth was, despite Whitaker's new found courage, Randall really
wanted to make him suffer for all the running around he had made him do.
But again as Ishrel had put it, Whitaker was little more than a stepping stone
to McCulloch.
Larry McCulloch, now he was a different matter entirely. That particular
meeting when it finally came wouldn't be pretty at all. Randall would get
extra points for making him suffer.
“Will I...” Whitaker's voice broke for a second, he tried to clear his throat
before continuing. “Will I go...” It was no good he just couldn't finish the
sentence.
“To hell?” Randall finished the sentence for him.
For a moment it looked to Randall like Whitaker was finally going to
break down into the quivering mass of hysteria he had been trying so hard to
keep at bay these past few minutes. Now that he had heard those dreaded
words out loud. So much for rumour and paranoia and now so much for
hope. Now that it was said out loud that somehow made it a fact. 'to hell'.
The Lawyer seemed to let the words sink in, then he nodded ever so slightly
as if accepting his fate.
“You have sown my friend,” Randall explained as Whitaker's shoulders
sagged under the weight of it all. “Now it's time to reap. Just like in the good
book.”
Again Whitaker nodded, he was clearly fighting the panic that was
wanting to burst out from every pore of his being, but still he was winning
that fight. Just.
“Come on, Tom, you're doing great.” Randall felt a sudden urge to slam
him on the arm but remembered the multitude of cuts the man had suffered
and decided against it, he would have to make do with words of
encouragement for now. “Keep your dignity, just a little while longer. It's
191
really the only thing you have control of. Make the call, then you can lose it
all you want. Christ knows no one will blame you for that. Least of all me.”
“Nor me,” Ishrel chimed in. “I'm even counting on it.”
Whitaker straightened himself as best he could. He even made a halfhearted attempt to smooth down his famous hair one last time. “Okay,” he
said firmly and crouched down to pick up his mobile phone which was laid
amongst the debris of the door on the floor by his feet. He dusted it off and
began to scroll through the address book.
Randall felt Ishrel move over closer to Whitaker and could just make out
his heat haze of a form over by his shoulder. He was studying the Lawyer’s
face who of course felt nothing of the demon’s presence.
“Hmm,” the demon mused. “Interesting. I thought this one would be a
beggar and a screamer. Just goes to show you never can tell.” Randall
thought he detected the merest hint of disappointment in his colourless
voice.
Then Ishrel drifted away to the corner of the room to prepare to follow
the phone signal as only his kind could once the all-important emotional
connection was made between Whitaker and the errant McCulloch. Then he
added with a definite hint of mournfulness. “Shame really. I'm all for begging
and screaming.
Oblivious to half his audience, Whitaker found the number and hit the
dial button the held the phone to his ear. “It's ringing,” he said hoarsely.
“Good boy,”
“What should I say?”
“Doesn't matter,” Randall replied. “Just say his name when you're sure
it's him who's answered. Then you can give the phone to me, and I'll say
something ominous.” He added with a smile.
“Remember, it has to be McCulloch,” Ishrel said from the corner, “If one
of those shit eating God squarders with him answers, I won't be able to find
him.”
“He'll answer, just get ready.” Randall told him.
192
Although Ishrel was the real expert at this, Randall could already see faint
tendrils of cold blue light emanating from the phone as its signal drifted off
into the ether. He could hear the demon behind him purring softly in
anticipation as it tried to tune itself into the energy signature it would use to
find McCulloch.
Randall had seen the little shit do this a couple of times before, both
times with amazing success, it was all down to the emotional link between the
two ends of the signal.
He knew this whole thing would have been over the moment the demon
found McCulloch if the creature could inflicted violence of its own. Ishrel
would make the perfect assassin in that respect, no style or imagination but
still it did have unerring instincts in such things, not that Randall would ever
admit it to Ishrel. Besides he would be out of a job, dead in a New York alley
all those decades ago. Whereas there were times when he wished that had
been his final fate, but not today. Today he was enjoying this crazy after life
of his.
“Come on, come on,” Ishrel hissed.
“Trouble?” Randall asked.
“No, the bastard isn't answering. I hope he still has his phone.”
“Give him chance, Ishrel. It is four thirty in the morning.” Randall said
“Soundly sleep the damned,” Ishrel said. And Randall liked the sound of
that.
Soundly slept the damned, until they are so rudely awakened. Larry
McCulloch was pulled out of the best dream he had had in weeks. He was
laid on a foreign beach somewhere hot, perhaps Greece, but it didn't really
matter. What did matter was that he was surrounded by a bevy of scantily
clad local beauties and if that wasn't good enough, the best part was that he
was being waited on hand and foot by that prick Lewis who he had running
back and forth catering to his every whim, dressed in a winter coat and thick
woollen trousers. The poor sap was almost drowning in his own sweat.
He had just sent him off running through the baking sand to fetch him
another ice cold cocktail when a familiar ring tone cut through the serenity
like a knife. He tried desperately to avoid the inevitable rude awakening but
193
to no avail. One second he was on the beach, the next he was sitting up in
bed in his freezing room in the safe house. Still shaking off the effects of
sleep he rolled cross the bed and grabbed his mobile from the bed side table.
Why the hell hadn't he turned the damn thing off?
He contemplated doing just that when he was the caller ID flash up;
'Whitaker'. Much against his better judgment he pressed the answer button
but he swore that if the arse hole just started babbling on about sharks and
shit again he would bin the phone and buy a new one in the morning.
“Tommy? For fuck sake man, do you know what time it is?”
Silence.
Larry covered the mouth piece, “Oh for fuck’s sake,” he said to the empty
room, then he remembered who was on the other end, and repeated it into
the phone. “Oh for fuck’s sake, Tommy?”
Still nothing, but the faint sound of breathing.
“Whitaker, don't start this bollocks again!” He swung his legs over the
edge of the bed. “I know it's you, Whitaker, I can see the fucking caller ID!”
He shivered and grabbed the duvet with his free hand and wrapped it around
himself. He moved his thumb to the end call button.
“Larry McCulloch,” Tommy said almost mechanically. “You are fucked.”
“Tommy. What did you say?” Then Larry realized Whitaker had used his
full name for some reason. Ripples? The word gnawed at the back of his
mind, he tried to dismiss it as tiredness. Ripples? Bullshit!
There was a few seconds of silence again and Larry was about to speak
when Whitaker said quite formally; “Larry McCulloch. I've got somebody here
who wants to speak to you.”
Larry's blood seemed to freeze in his veins as he heard the phone change
hands. He was about to press end call when an American on the other end
spoke.
“Did you say your prayers tonight, Larry?”
Then the phone went dead.
194
Larry let the phone slip from his hand and vaguely heard it hit the floor a
million miles away. He tried to swallow but it caught in his throat, then finally
he just managed to croak out. “Oh, bollocks.”
Randall tossed the phone away and turned to Ishrel. “Well?”
“Got him!” Ishrel's shimmering form rose into the air, which was now
thick with blue trails of light swirling around the ceiling and out through the
window and off into the night. They were so vivid Randall himself could have
followed them although not with Ishrel's speed. He knew they would fade all
too quickly now that the connection was broken. The demon hovered close
to the ceiling letting the light show wrap itself around him as he orientated
himself to the direction it was leading. “Oh, yes, yes I can use this,” Ishrel
purred. An instant later he was gone, riding the light stream like a roller
coaster out the window and away.
“I knew I kept that guy around for a reason,” Randall said. The light was
already fading fast, plunging the room back into near darkness once more.
Whitaker of course saw none of this. “Is that all?” He asked tentatively.
“Yeah. Not much to see from your point of view, but it was quite a show
from where I’m standing.”
The lawyer looked around the room puzzled.
A moment later Ishrel was back in the room, bouncing around like a
demented ball of black energy. “Found him,” he declared and Randall caught
a brief glimpse of his cat like eyes as they flashed in the undulating heat haze
that made up his body. “And he's only some fifty or so miles from here.”
“You sure you won't lose him?” Randall asked. He knew once the God
squaders learnt that Randall had contacted McCulloch it wouldn't take them
long to figure out the old crook had been traced. “What if they move him?”
“Ha!” Ishrel was as high as a kite, his usually vacuous voice definitely had
a hint of excitement in it. In fact Randall couldn't remember the last time he
had seen the thing so worked up, he seemed to be enjoying this field work
lark. “They could move him to the very gates of heaven and I could still
follow. We have him collector, we have him.”
195
“Good shit,” Randall said with a nod. He turned to Whitaker who was
looking at him apparently talking to himself somewhat perplexed. “Sorry
Tommy. Very rude of me. I was just discussing matters with my associate.”
“Don't you dare name me, Collector,” Ishrel warned. “Not again.”
Normally that would be like a red rag to a bull to Randall, but he bit his
tongue this time, not wanting to sour Ishrel's good mood. After all the little
shit had finally proved useful and even demons deserve a break from having
their balls busted once in a while. “Fair enough,” he said.
“I, don't understand.” Whitaker said with a shake of the head.
“Right, let's be off,” Randall said with a clap of the hands. He turned to
leave when Ishrel came buzzing in his ear.
“Erm, aren't you forgetting something, Randall?” He motioned to
Whitaker as best as he could given his current ethereal form.
“Oh, Christ, Yeah.” Randall spun back to Whitaker who had been
watching him opened mouthed talking to himself again. “Shit, sorry Tom. I'd
forget my head if it wasn't screwed on.”
“Randall... wait...” Whitaker flinched but could do little else. “Listen...”
Not much for last words, especially coming from a man who had made
his fortune talking judges and jurors alike senseless over the years. But his last
they were.
Randall moved with lightning speed and before the lawyer could react he
snapped his neck in one fluid motion with a practised efficiency. It was all in
the flick of the wrists. Whitaker’s vertebrate snapped and part of the jagged
edged bone sliced right through his jugular and neck.
A massive gout of blood painted the ceiling and far wall a shocking red
as it jetted from the open wound.
Whitaker let out a brief strangled cry before collapsing to the floor where
he laid quite dead with a look of shock of his face and his head twisted at an
odd angle to the rest of his body. Blood was still pumping from the ragged
hole in his neck but with less and less force with each spurt as his veins
emptied and his heart failed.
196
Tommy Whitaker was dead, and it had been quick as promised. If not
clean.
“There’s your blood Ishrel. Happy now?”
“At last!” Ishrel exclaimed with as close as he could get to genuine glee.
“A body count!”


TWENTY-SEVEN
Time, that great deceiver. One moment it moves like molasses. Minute
hands on a clock face taking an eternity to rotate three hundred and sixty
degrees. Then, while your guard is down, just as you have settled into its
hypnotic arms and let yourself be carried alone at its leisurely pace, in the
blink of an eye it would flow like water through your hands and no matter
how you protested this sudden change it would slip through your fingers
until, before you know it, it was all but gone.
And so time had played its trick on Father Nichols over these last few
days, lulling him into a false sense of security. It had slowed to a crawl, each
minute seemed an hour, each hour a day. Until it had succeeded in
convincing him it would stretch on for as long as he needed it to.
It was something he had grown used to living in the bowels of the
Vatican. For time there was a law unto itself. As when it wasn't standing still,
could always be counted on to run so slowly as to make no difference. The
place had stood for hundreds of years hardly changing much at all,
untouched as it was by the outside world where time played mischief with
stone and bone alike.
When Nichols had first arrived back in England, he was still very much
running on Vatican time, for he knew the bureaucratic wheels there turned as
slowly today as they had down through the centuries and as thus it was
pointless to will them to turn any faster now that he was here in the outside
world. He knew this all too well and had tried to prepare himself for it, but
still now that he was out here he couldn't quite stop himself from fretting.
197
After all, things were different when you were out here on the front line,
out in the open and potentially at the mercy of God only knew what. Waiting,
waiting as the Cardinals met in dusty rooms taking their time as they always
did to discuss the fate of others. But this time it was Nichols’ fate they were
debating, his and the other poor souls charged with the care and protection
of the main topic of conversation; Larry McCulloch.
But as the hours had stretched into days, time slowed out here in the
'real' world too. And Father Nichols was its fool. Believing as he did in its
promise of never ending minutes, all the time he needed to save McCulloch
from the darkness. One minute coming after the other until they made one
bloated hour after another. For as long (it had seemed) the Priest needed it
to tick on.
It was a seduction he willingly relented to. As the armies of damnation
hadn't come to break down the door, to kill them all and drag Larry
McCulloch off to the hell he so richly deserved. So the initial fretting had
soon given way to unease which in turn had soothed into a comfortable
tedium. Nichols, without realizing it, had let himself be seduced into thinking;
Tick, as the saying went, would always follow tock, etc, etc.
It was a nice dream while it lasted, but one from which Larry McCulloch
had been quite literally dragged from no more than an hour ago. And thus
Father Nichols had awoken to find that time had grown tired of sloth and had,
on a whim, opted instead for warp factor nine. And performing a deft sleight
of hand trick, time had all but run out in the blink of a bleary eye.
And with it the sudden realization that time was now smoke, it had
paralysed his usually acute senses into numbing inaction. His mind was
awash with a million different thoughts at once. Each vying in vain for his
attention, but with such fury that try as he might he couldn't grasp one.
All his semi-comatose state would allow him to do was just stand there
with his heart in his boots looking out through a gap in the living room
curtains to the approaching dawn outside, which was developing, as if for
dramatic effect, into an ominous red colour. Time was a slippery thing now
so he couldn't tell if he had been standing there, neither use nor ornament,
for mere seconds or an hour or more. It was all a nonsense now but he just
couldn't drag himself away from the window.
198
What was it he was looking for out there in the dwindling night? Was he
keeping watch for death’s imminent arrival? Would it really come so soon?
Or was his vigil in some vain hope of divine intervention come riding swiftly
on the dawn’s coat tails to save the day?
He just didn't know.
Through the mire of indecision he was up to his neck in, Nichols became
vaguely aware of Larry muttering something or other in the room behind him,
but that could have been a million miles away for all he could gather as it
barely registered here in his own little world by the window where only the
oncoming blood red dawn seemed real.
Then a blur of movement in the shadows of the garden outside caught
his eye, he looked down to see a scrawny black and white cat come darting
out from behind the house, it ran across the unkempt lawn and cleared the
hedge in one graceful bound and then sprinted off across the road before
being swallowed up by what was left of the night.
“Someone's got the right idea,” he half heard himself say then returned
his gaze to the hypnotic sky above, still waiting for either death or the
celestial cavalry to arrive. More movement behind him this time almost
dragged his wandering thoughts back to the matter at hand. Ania Peroni this
time, talking in her heavy Italian accent into her radio, each sentence
punctuated by a burst of static, then Lewis answering but he couldn't quite
catch what they were discussing.
At least Peroni, the seasoned pro that she was, had sprung into action
when Larry had dragged them all out of bed with his babbling of the
American's late night call. She had despatched Jeff at once to find the nearest
petrol station and fuel up the car, ready for any necessary quick getaway.
And Lewis to the kitchen where they had the CCTV monitors set up, he was
there now on the lookout for any mischief brewing outside, but so far,
deserting cats aside, all was well out there.
“Larry! Do us all a favour,” Peroni pleaded. “Put some clothes on,
please!” She just couldn't stand having to watch him pacing back and forth in
his underwear any longer, which she had no choice in doing for the best part
of half an hour now, which was thirty minutes too long in anyone's book.
199
The old crook hadn't been able to sit still for more than ten seconds since
he had dragged her and Nichols out of bed after his call from the American,
and in his hast for action he had neglected to put on any clothes. He barely
seemed to notice her at all and just kept chewing his nails and muttering
under his breath, all the while wearing out the living rooms already
threadbare carpet with his constant pacing. Pausing only briefly to glance
incredulously at Father Nichols who was still standing at the window staring
blankly into the darkness outside looking for God only knew what.
Ania was concerned at the priest’s reaction to this new turn of events, he
had warned it might happen, but now it had he hadn't said more than two
words to her since they all came downstairs, and it had been left to her to
organise Lewis and Jeff, and try, so far without little success to get anything of
use out of Larry.
She desperately needed a caffeine hit to settle her frayed nerves and
more importantly clear her head, as so far she had twice asked Larry a
question in her native Italian, which she always did when she was tired or
stressed and not thinking straight like now. She had enough to think about
without having to concentrate on speaking in English, which was causing a
good five second delay in between thought and what eventually came out of
her mouth.
She needed coffee and lots of it, but first she needed Larry McCulloch in
trousers.
“Larry, put some trousers on,” she tried again. “You'll catch your death...”
This at least stopped him in his tracks, not the best choice of words she could
have picked but at least they were in English and had got his attention. He
looked down at himself as if only just now realizing his state of undress, then
without a word left the room. Peroni heard him stomping up the stairs, and
with him gone she turned to Nichols who was still meditating by the window.
She was almost loathed to break the silence but knew it would only be a
matter of a minute or two before Larry would be back down stairs, hopefully
in trousers, and no doubt demanding action.
“Father?” She said softly, Nichols didn't turn away from the window but
Peroni definitely heard him sign and then he gave a slight nod of the head.
“What do you think, sir?” She asked and could already hear McCulloch
making his way out of his room and onto the landing, he seemed to have
200
gone into the bathroom which at least gave her a little more time to get
through to the priest.
“I think,” Nichols replied after an age, his voice laced with fatigue. “I
think we are in trouble, Ania. A lot of trouble.”
It was a plain statement of fact, said without emotion and again to his
reflection in the window as if he couldn’t bear to say it to her face. Peroni had
known it deep down, but hearing Nichols verbalize it still made her heart skip
a beat.
“Well?” It was Larry, she hadn't even heard him come back down the
stairs but there he was standing in the doorway now in a crumpled shirt and
thankfully trousers. “What are we going to do?” He wanted to know.
Again Nichols didn't move to reply, it seemed to Ania as if he felt that
turning around and actually facing the problem might just about make it all
too real for the priest, and somewhere deep done she sympathized, even
though it wasn't an option she could afford to subscribe to, if any of them
were going to get out of here in one piece.
“Hello?” Larry said in a condescending tone. He moved into the room
with a face like thunder.
More to break the tension than anything, Peroni asked; “Larry, you are
sure that is all the American said?”
Larry stopped mid stride. “Yes, how many fucking times?” He replied
looking annoyed. “Did you say your prayers tonight? That's all he said.”
“And it wasn't Whitaker?” She asked.
“I told you,” Larry spoke to her as if she were twelve. “It was a yank. The
yank. The one you're all so fucking scared of, I imagine.”
“Okay,” she said defensively and waited for Nichols to wade in with
something constructive, but instead he said obliquely.
“Well, did you?”
Peroni and Larry exchanged a look.
“Did I what?” Larry replied testily.
“Did you say your prayers tonight?” Nichols asked.
201
“Jesus!” Larry threw his arms up in dismay. “Are you actually going to
come up with anything worth a shit, or are you just going to stare out of that
fucking window all fucking night?” He turned away from the priest and aimed
his tirade at Peroni. “Normally, I can't shut any of you lot up, but now I need
answers? Not a fucking peep worth a shit. Now I asked what the fuck are we
going to do now?” He took his mobile out of his pocket and waved it in
Peroni's face. “The bastard has got my number!”
“He can't trace it, you weren’t on long enough,” she replied, trying to
refrain from smacking him in the mouth. “I suppose he got it from Whitaker.”
“Yeah, that twat!” Larry spat bitterly.
“So, about Whitaker..”
“Tommy Whitaker is dead.” Nichols cut Peroni off mid-sentence, and
with that finally came away from the window to face them, his weary features
grey.
“He might have cut a deal with Randall,” Peroni offered trying to remain
positive.
The priest shook his head, his face was a mask of determination now.
“No, Tommy Whitaker is dead,” he stated again. “Randall has found him and
now Larry is next.”
“Great!” Larry exclaimed. “You know I'm standing right here?”
This won little more than a shrug from Nichols. Peroni studied the priest.
How old was he? She wondered. It was only now she noticed just how fragile
the man looked, almost ancient at the moment, with the weight of the world
of his shoulders, and it was a burden he wasn't bearing well. She tried not to
show it, but seeing him like this unnerved her more than the prospect of
Randall turning up in the door step unannounced with the whole of hell at his
back. This old man who she had trusted and relied upon seemed so brittle
right now. He caught her perusal and could clearly see the disappointment in
her eyes. They both looked away instantly with the weakest of smiles.
“Right!” Peroni said clapping her hands in an attempt to muster up some
enthusiasm. “Larry, think about it, there's no way he could trace the call that
quickly. Besides, he called you.”
202
“Yeah,” Larry said taking some comfort from the fact. “Of course, he was
on five seconds tops.” He shook his head at his own paranoia.
“That's right.” Peroni confirmed.
“Normally I would agree,” Nichols said, sucking the life from the room
with his tone. “But I'm afraid we are about as far away from normal as it's
possible to get.”
Peroni bit her lip as Larry's face dropped again, so much for trying to
boost morale, she thought bitterly as a dozen different swear words raced
through her mind, mostly Italian, but she choked them back, just.
“So?” Larry looked frantically between the two of them. “Can he trace
the fucking call or not!?”
“I honestly don't know,” Nichols replied, his voice a ghost.
Peroni's heart sank. What do you do? She thought. When the man with
all the answers suddenly has none?
“Fuck this!” Larry exclaimed and threw the offending mobile down onto
the floor. “I ain't taking any chances.” He then proceeded to stamp on the
phone repeatedly until it was in a dozen pieces.
“Larry!” Peroni snapped. Her nerves were so frayed she had to screw her
eyes shut just to concentrate on speaking English. “It's a little late for that,”
she said in a softer tone when the pointless display was over. But Larry just
kick the largest piece away which clattered against the wall where it broke in
half again much to his obvious satisfaction.
“Saint’s preserve us,” Peroni said under her breath and unclipped the
radio from her belt and brought it up to her lips. “Lewis, this is Peroni. Get
Jeff on the radio, I want him back ASAP. We are leaving.”
Lewis' voice cracked through the radio in response. “Roger that boss.”
“Finally!” Larry said with no little relief. “Where to?”
“For now, anywhere but here. Just to be on the safe side, since no one
really knows what we are up against.” The remark was aimed at Nichols, in
the hope it would sting him out of his stupor, she looked at the priest who
nodded to her conceding the point perhaps but still had nothing to offer.
203
She didn't care it felt good to be taking control of the situation at last herself,
someone she knew she could rely on.
“Larry moved towards the door but stopped mid-stride. “You sure about
Tommy?” He asked Peroni. Not that he cared in particular it was just that the
priest had said he was next in line. “I mean,” he continued, more to convince
himself that anyone, “That guy can talk himself out of most things.” Sure he
knew he was fishing for a life-line, but if he thought the lawyer could talk
himself out of a death sentence, then maybe he could do the same. It was a
pretty thin straw, but he was going to grasp at it all the same.
“What's this?” Peroni asked with raised eyebrow, “A guilty conscience,
Larry?”
“Bollocks,” came the inevitable reply.
That's more like it Peroni thought. “Tommy Whitaker is dead, or worse.”
She said sounding just like Nichols.
“Oh, for Christ sake!” Larry looked to the heavens in dismay. (No help
there Peroni mused.) “Will people stop saying that!” His tone edging
towards the desperate again. “How many times? Dead, is fucking dead, and
you won’t convince me otherwise. Now can we secure the mumbo-jumbo
bullshit and get out of here?”
“We will,” Peroni replied, “just as soon as Jeff gets back with the car.”
Then she couldn't help adding; “And on the 'dead is dead' part? Let us hope
you never have to find out.”
McCulloch was about to reply when Peroni's radio sparked into life.
“Boss, this is Lewis, I can't raise Jeff, over.”
“Perhaps he's driving,” Nichols offered.
“Maybe,” she said and switched the frequency on her radio to Jeff's
channel. “Jeff, this is Peroni, do you copy? Over.”
The radio spat back static in reply. She tried again with growing unease.
“Jeffrey, this is Peroni, do you copy? What is your twenty? Over.” But got
nothing but more static.
Had time run out so soon? Nichols felt a wave of fear rise up from his
guts which had been twisted in a knot since he'd got up. Peroni was listening
to the dead air coming from the radio with gritted teeth. Nichols so
204
desperately wanted to help her but the fear had robbed him of any cogent
thought, he cursed his inaction but was a slave to it never the less.
It was Larry who spoke first. “We need to get out of here, now!”
“No, just wait,” Peroni said gathering her thoughts. She brought the
radio back up to her lips to speak, then with a shake of the head she changed
her mind and switched channels once more. “Lewis, keep trying to raise Jeff.
And I want you to do a quick sweep of the outside of the house. Once
around, gun drawn. Do you understand?
There was a long pause, no doubt as Lewis digested this new turn of
events, then. “Roger that, Lewis out.” And with that they heard him jog out
of the kitchen, through the hall and to the front door. “Jeff, this is Lewis,
come in mate, over,” then the front door closed with an ominous bang and
was locked.
“Larry, get your stuff together.” Peroni instructed. “Father, you too.”
“You don't have to tell be twice, sister,” Larry said as he darted out of the
living room and upstairs to pack.
Once again this left Peroni alone in the room with Father Nichols. Both
of them knew there had been a power shift in their relationship. Nichols, for
all his knowledge of what they might be facing had to relent that they had
clearly strayed into her territory now and she was handling it far better than
he. The priest felt a twinge of guilt, not for his impotence but for the fact that
he was a little grateful to relinquish the responsibility of leadership to
another.
“You once said to me Father, that things could get very bad, very quickly
if he found us. Is this what you meant?” Peroni's tone was harsh, almost
accusatory.
All Nichols could do was nod in was of response. But that wasn't good
enough for her. “Could he have found us so quickly?”
“I... I really don't know, Ania...” His voice faltered for a moment, what
could he say? That this was precisely what he had warned the Vatican would
happen if they didn't move fast enough. He could have told her this wasn't
his fault for all the good it would do. That if he had more time to prepare, he
wouldn’t be so useless to her now. He was caught in the grip of that same
205
fear that had taken a hold of him all those years ago and he felt just as
helpless in the face of the unknown. “I needed more time,” he finally added.
“To prepare.”
“Prepare what?” Peroni wanted to know.
“Our defences. You know as well as I do guns and Lewis' coffee aren't
going to stop Randall if he gets here before we get out.”
She almost cracked a smile. Lewis coffee was notoriously bad, especially
to her Italian taste buds.
“If only I had a little more time...” he said again.
“Well you don't. Whatever you had in mind, you'll just need to wing it.”
She paused her mind whirring then said. “If we don't get out of here in time...
Do you have something that can help us?”
Nichols exhaled and looked away from her. Trapped here, cut off from
help that was the nightmare scenario he had so successfully put out of his
mind ever since they had arrived. If only they had listened to him, they could
all be away safe with Larry in the Vatican, safe from the collector and on
familiar ground.
“Father?” Peroni pressed him. “Do you have a plan if this all goes
wrong?”
“Perhaps, no... I don’t know.” He said to the floor unable to meet her
gaze.
Before Peroni could press him further her radio burst into life. “Boss, it's
Lewis.” Even over the radio they could both hear the relief in his voice. “I'm
out front in the street. Everything's clear and guess what? Jeff's car has just
appeared at the top of the road, he should be here in a mo'. Hope he's
remembered my doughnuts, over.”
“Oh, thank god,” Peroni's shoulders physically sagged, she raised the
radio but didn't take her eyes off the priest. “I want both of you inside, the
moment he arrives, nothing has changed, we leave in ten minutes,
out”
“Roger diddly dodger that, Lewis out.”
206
She let her hand holding the radio drop to her side and she gave a slight
smile at Lewis' unconventional radio manner, under the circumstances she'd
let it go.
Hard and professional as she was, Nichols wasn't surprised to see she
had tears in her eyes.
“I'm going get us into the Vatican,” he told her, even if I have to speak to
his holiness himself. He'll get us on the next plane back home, I'm sure of it.”
She nodded and tapped her shoulder holster. “I'll hijack one if needs be,”
she said.
“Let's hope I doesn't come to that.” He paused for a moment desperate
to say something to make amends for his inaction, but could only say. “Ania,
look I'm sorry.”
“No need,” she replied with a shake of the head. “I was more than a little
panicked there myself for a while.”
“But still...”
He was cut off as Lewis' voice came over the radio. “Oh, shit, of fuck me!”
“Lewis, what is it?” Peroni asked.
“Erm, oh no, no, no way.” Was all she got in response.
Fear tightened Peroni's throat, she keyed the radio to speak but nothing
came out. She exchanged a look of panic with Nichols.
“Ania, get him inside, now.” Nichols said firmly.
“Lewis?” Peroni finally found her voice. “Lewis, what's wrong?”
“Ania!” Nichols moved forwards and gently took her arm, “get him back
inside.”
She looked at him blankly and said. “Lewis never swears,”
“Something is wrong,” he told her. “Get Lewis back inside. Now!”
She winced at the sharpness in his voice and the indecision in her face
fell away. “Yes.” Then into the radio. “Lewis, get inside, now.”
“But Jeff...” Lewis said.
“Now, I said!”
207
The both heard the front door open then slam shut. A moment later
Lewis appeared in the living room doorway, his face white with shock. He
looked at them both unable to speak.
“Lewis?” Peroni prompted, her voice trembling. “What happened?
“There was somebody in the car with Jeff.”


TWENTY-EIGHT
Strange. Jeff felt strange like he was drifting through some kind of
waking dream, or nightmare. Or would have felt strange, he suspected, if he
could actually feel anything at all. Was feeling numb, the absence of feeling
actually feeling at all?
He pulled the car over to the curb in front of the safe house and switched
the engine off. And in doing so had the nagging doubt at the back of his
mind that in doing so he was in some way collaborating with the enemy. His
clouded brain tried in vain to wrestle with the problem. He was on the good
side, wasn't he? So why did he feel like a traitor?
Jeff shook his head but it didn't clear. Strange, surreal, not quite with it.
Any of these would do fine to describe his present state. His memory of
recent events was fading fast, he tried hard to remember just what exactly
had happened over the last half an hour that had led him to this point.
Parked outside the safe house, that in itself was normal enough, he had
done it countless times over the last few days. Nothing strange or surreal
about that. It was just that this morning something was different, about him,
about the whole world around him. But his befuddled state of mind couldn't
unravel what it was. Jeff had never done drugs, he'd never even been drunk,
but it was easy to imagine they both must feel something like this.
“I feel...” He said out loud, but couldn't think how to articulate further.
The shadow man in the passenger seat next to him summed it up better than
he ever could.
“Discombobulated?”
208
“Yeah,” he replied his lips feeling more numb by the second. That was as
good a word as any.
“It's my new favourite word,” said his passenger.
Jeff rapped his knuckles on the steering wheel, quite hard, but what little
sensation he had left was diminishing moment by moment. It was as if his
nerve endings just about remembered how to register feeling, but that the
memory was fading fast until. As he got out of the car and into what should
have been the freezing early morning air, he felt nothing at all.
Mind you, he counted this his blessings as whenever he moved his head
the back of his skull where it was connected to his spine made the most
alarming grating sound. He rubbed the back of his neck and suspected if his
fingertips could feel anything the back of his neck would feel jagged.
For all his disorientation, Jeff's passenger was the only fixed point, the
world was hazy at best, the sound muffled, but when the shadow man moved
he was in sharp focus against the gloom, when he spoke it was crystal clear.
In fact, hadn't it been the shadow man who had told Jeff to get out of the car
just now? Just has he had told him to drive here, he also seemed to recall
telling his passenger all about the safe house, who was in there and what
protection they had.
Normally he would have rather died than impart that information to an
enemy, but something about the man made it all okay. He was a traitor but
that was okay to, as long as the shadow man was the one asking the
questions, he was glad to answer them. Strange. The shadow man was the
puppet master and Jeff the willing marionette dancing to whatever tune he
called.
He stood there by the car as the puppeteer got out and joined him on
the pavement and they both looked up at the safe house. Although now that
he was here Jeff couldn't quite remember what was so safe about the place.
And the faces of those inside, faces he once, not so long ago called friends
were fading into the darkest recesses of his dying memory until they too
would soon be shadows like his passenger.
Best not to try and think too much he told himself, so he waited there for
the puppet master to tug on his strings. Then suddenly out of the gloom in
his head came a flash of realization. He turned to the shadow man who was
209
smiling, he seemed a pleasant enough chap to Jeff, and even though he
hadn't been instructed to speak, he needed to voice the realization before he
forgot it all together.
“I'm dead, aren't I?”
“Sort of,” came the reply in a soft American accent.
American. Somewhere buried deep at the back of his fading mind Jeff
knew that little fact was significant somehow.
TWENTY-NINE
“I think the bastard's got Jeff,” Lewis said breathlessly. He and Peroni
looked at each other for a full five seconds, then:
“Shutters!” Peroni said sharply, “Lewis, you get the ones in the kitchen
and dining room, I'll secure in here.”
“Right,” Lewis' pale face flushed with purpose.
“You sure you triple bolted the front door?” She asked before he
disappeared.
“Hell yeah,” he replied and then was gone.
Peroni moved swiftly over to the living rooms large window and with
great effort pulled down the heavy steel shutters that had been installed
throughout the ground floor for emergencies just like this. Once the latch
clicked home she threw the bolt across the lock sealing it tight. She tugged
at it to make sure it was secure then satisfied it was safe she pulled out her
pistol from its shoulder holster and with cool efficiency chambered a round.
“Very bad, very quickly,” Nichols said and she nodded.
A moment later Lewis was back in the room breathing hard.
“Secure?” Peroni asked.
“As it can be,” Lewis replied grimly and seeing Peroni had drawn her
pistol, did the same.
“Poor Jeff,” Nichols breathed as an empty felling came creeping over him.
He saw Lewis wince at the mention of his young friend’s name.
210
“This doesn't make any sense,” Peroni said. “How in God's name did he
find us so soon? And how could he have possibly known Jeff was with us?”
“Could have been watching the house?” Lewis offered. “He could have
called Larry from right outside.”
“True,” Peroni had to agree, much preferring that rational explanation to
any supernatural one.
By the look on Nichol's face he was more inclined to go with the
supernatural. But then again, Peroni mused, didn't he always?
“I imagine you can ask him that yourself soon enough,” the priest said
bleakly.
“Jesus! What's with all the guns?” Larry came into the room lugging his
hastily packed suitcase, to see everyone waving guns around.
“Change of plan, Larry,” Lewis told him. “We thought we'd hang around
for a while.”
“Shite,” Larry eyed the steel shutters. They made the place feel like a
fucking tomb to him. “What's going on?” He said nodding towards the
shutters.
“Randall is here,” Nichols said and Larry felt like someone had just kicked
him in the stomach.
“What?” He just managed to choke out.
“And he's got Jeff,” Lewis added.
But Larry only had eyes for the priest. “Here? How?”
“I don't know,” Nichols replied with a shake of the head.
“You don't seem to fucking know much anymore, do ya?” Larry said.
Nichols didn't reply to the accusation, what could he say? This idiot was
worse than useless Larry thought, and was about to tell him so when Peroni
stepped forwards.
“Enough of that,” she said firmly, then turned to Lewis. “Lewis, with me.
Father, stay here with Larry.”
She moved to leave with Lewis but Larry caught her arm. “Where the hell
are you going?”
211
“We have CCTV cameras outside,” she said snatching her arm away from
Larry's grip. “I need to see what we are up against out there. And how Jeff's
doing.”
With this she darted past him and out of the room. Lewis moved to
follow but just couldn't stop himself; “Now don't go anywhere,” he told Larry
and was gone.
McCulloch looked at Nichols for an explanation, but the priest had his
eyes closed, his lips moving as he silently recited what might have been a
prayer. This made Larry's blood boil. “Hardly a time for that now padre,
unless you can miracle us out of here.”
But the priest ignored or didn't hear him.
“Fuck!” Larry spat at the fool. Was it him or did the room seem to be
getting smaller around him?
In the kitchen, Lewis and Peroni huddled around the flickering black and
white monitor which was connected to the cameras outside. On it was a TV
show neither of them wanted to see, but still couldn't take their eye off. It
starred their friend Jeff, who cut a solitary figure standing by the gate at the
front of the house. He looked like a lost soul standing there and seemed to
sway slightly as he looked up at the camera positioned over the front door.
“Jeff,” Lewis whispered.
“He's alone,” Peroni said, and tapped the keyboard hooked up to the
CCTV system and the picture flicked in quick succession from one camera to
the next so she could see all around the safe house but there was no one else
visible on any of them. She stopped when the picture came to rest back on
Jeff.
“But I saw someone,” Lewis insisted.
“I believe you, but I can't see anyone now.” She tapped a code onto the
keyboard again and the screen split into four boxes each with a view from a
different camera, all empty but one. “See?”
“I could have sworn...”
Peroni shut off the other cameras so the whole screen showed Jeff again
standing forlornly by the gate. She felt a pang of guilt, it always seemed to
be poor Jeff that got left outside in the cold, or sent on some errand or other.
212
He was the youngest of them so they had unconsciously made him the
gopher. She drummed her finger tips on the table chewing her lip.
“Maybe we should let him in?” Lewis asked.
She turned and gave him a look and didn't need to say a word.
“Okay, okay,” Lewis relented. “But, it's Jeff Ania.”
“I know,” she said softly.
“Hang on, what's that?” Lewis leant forwards and tapped the screen at a
slight distortion of the picture next to Jeff who kept glancing at it and
mouthing something.
“Fault with the camera?” Peroni offered.
As they watched the distortion it was clear now that Jeff was actually
talking to it.
“Weird,” Lewis said as Jeff silently chatted on. “I wish this damn thing had
sound.”
“We were lucky to even get this set up,” Peroni reminded him.” The
system was twenty years old at best and that alone was testament to how
their mission was regarded in the back rooms of Whitehall by way of the
Vatican.
As Peroni watched Jeff, something about him just didn't seem right, but
at this distance and with the antiquated camera she couldn't make out what it
was. She was grateful when Jeff opened the gate and began to walk
unsteadily down the garden path and towards the front door so at least she
could get a better look.
“What's wrong with him,” clearly Lewis had noticed it too. “What's that
on his forehead?”
“Wait a sec'” Peroni deftly moved a small joystick which control the pan
and tilt of the camera and moved it so the camera tracked Jeff as he walked.
Now he was closer she could see what looked like a square piece of paper
stuck to his forehead.
“What is that?” Lewis asked.
213
She shook her head, but that wasn't what was bothering her about Jeff.
She squinted at the grainy image and as she did so it slowly dawned on her
what was amiss.
“Oh,” she suddenly felt sick, that gnawing feeling something was wrong
crystallized into horrifying realization. “Oh, Jeff.”
“Ania?”
She shook her head.
“Ania, what is it?”
It was freezing outside, and even thought the equipment was less than
state of the art, the picture was all too clear enough.
“Jeff's not breathing.”
“What?” Lewis leaned closer still to the monitor.
“There's no breath coming out of his mouth. If he's talking and
breathing...” Her voice finally failed her.
“We'd be able to see his breath in the air.” Lewis said grimly finishing her
sentence for her.
They both stared intently at the screen each of them willing a small cloud
of breath to plume out of Jeff's mouth and into the early morning air, but
nothing came.
The distortion that had been hovering by the gate came slowly down the
path and stopped next to Jeff. Now that it was closer, Peroni could just about
make out a shifting human form in its mist.
“It's him,” she said almost reverentially. I'm guessing the CCTV can't pick
him up properly, but that's him alright.”
“The collector,” Lewis said grimly.


THIRTY
214
Larry cried out in shock as someone began hammering on the front door.
“Jesus!”
A second later Peroni appeared in the doorway looking grim. “Jeff's
dead,” she said numbly.
“Then who the fuck is that hammering on the fucking door?” Larry asked
with growing panic.
“Jeff,” she replied. “And Randall's with him.”
Although he knew that was coming, fear punched Father Nichols in the
stomach and he wasn't sure but the way Peroni looked at him he might have
gasped out loud. He barely heard Larry as he spoke again over the roar of
the blood in his ears, no loss though as it was probably just another profanity.
Then he realized they were both looking at him now.
Had he spoken, offered some practicality to help get them out of this?
The answer was no of course because he had nothing to offer. After all, when
a dead man comes knocking at your door. What can you say? Except
perhaps a prayer.
In the hallway behind Peroni, Lewis appeared, pistol gripped tightly in
both hands, he pointed it off towards the front door, his face was set like
stone, his eyes had narrowed to predatory slits.
“Father?” Peroni was at Nichols' side before he realized it, and when he
didn't answer she took him by the shoulders and shook him hard, he was
surprised at her strength but one look into her eyes told him it was born of
fear, she was terrified but trying desperately to fight it. And it was that
struggle more than anything that dragged him out of his stupor.
“Upstairs,” he said. “We'll have to trust the door will hold, for now.”
She nodded, relief flooding her features. “Agreed,” she said, then
shouted over her shoulder; “Lewis, we're moving upstairs, cover us then get
yourself up there too.”
“Not much of a place for a fucking last stand,” Lewis said, eyes still locked
on the door as the hammering continued.
“It'll have to do for now,” Nichols said moving forwards and taking Larry
by the arm. “Come on Larry,” he added firmly.
215
As he passed Peroni in the door way she gave him a
thin but genuine smile. “Good to have you back, Father.” He answered
her with a nod and pulled Larry through the door. His adrenaline pumping at
last he felt like a man with a purpose, things were clearer now, he was scared,
yes and things looked bad for them all, but he swore to himself then and
there that he would die before he would be so useless to Lewis and Peroni
again, and yes even Larry McCulloch.
He pulled Larry passed Lewis, who raised his pistol so as not to aim at
them then returned it to the door after they passed, Nichols paused for a
moment at the foot of the stairs and glanced at the door. Jeff was just a few
feet from him but may have been a million miles away. “Sorry, Jeff,” he said
under his breath, then half led, half dragged Larry with him upstairs. As Jeff
hammered on.
“Everyone into Larry's room, it's the biggest and we can see the front
door from the landing there,” Peroni instructed close behind Larry and
Nichols now.
The three of them sprinted up the stairs taking them two at a time, then
when they reached the top, Peroni ushered Nichols and Larry into his room
then spun around on the landing to aim her pistol down the stairs and at the
front door at the bottom.
“Lewis, up.” She shouted. Not needing a second invitation, Lewis
bounded up the stairs and joined her on the landing, where they both stood
side by side aiming. When nothing came bursting through the door, Peroni
turned to Lewis. “Stay here,” she told him, “You can see the door just fine.
And if anything comes through it...”
“Shoot first, yeah I got it.”
“Good man,” she patted him on the shoulder and moved to go through
into Larry bedroom but stopped for a moment. “Say, Lewis?”
“Huh?” He said without turning around.
“What's with the swearing all of a sudden?”
His grim face relaxed for a second and he shrugged. “Didn't realize I had
been.”
216
“Fuck yeah,” she replied impishly and after just catching the utter shock
on Lewis’ face, went through into Larry room where the old crook was in full
ranting mode.
“This is fucking insane! What the hell are we going to do now?”
“We remain calm,” Peroni told him as she holstered her pistol. “We need
to think.”
“Calm? Bollocks! Someone has led that bastard here, someone has
grassed.” He held his head in his hands, all thought of outward appearance
gone. He was scared shit less and he didn't give a damn who saw it.
“Larry, please.” Father Nichols said and went over to the window, he
pulled the curtain aside and looked down into the street below, half expecting
to see hell itself outside, but it was just the same sleepy urban scene that had
always been there, seemingly oblivious to the drama playing out right at its
heart. He scanned the street from end to end, there was no sign of Jeff or
Randall. They were probably both by the front door which was obscured by
the side of the house from this vantage point.
Bang, bang, bang on the door. It seemed impossibly loud from up here,
and it was fraying Larry's nerves one by one with each blow.
“Christ! Can't somebody do something about that fucking noise?” He
pleaded.
“You can go down there and answer it if you like,” Lewis called through
from the landing.
“Shut up!!” Larry screamed back. “You people are supposed to be
protecting me! You're supposed to be keeping me safe!” His voice was
edging towards the hysterical now.
“Larry!” Peroni snapped, Jeff was dead and McCulloch's bleating was
cutting right through her, so much so she couldn't stop herself saying
through gritted teeth; “It's you he wants. Maybe we should let him have
you?” She instantly regretted the remark, but mostly because it felt damn
good to say it. She saw Nichols out of the corner of her eye, turning to her
no doubt in shock, but didn't meet his gaze.
“Here, here,” Lewis added from his post out on the landing.
“Fucking try it,” Larry retorted.
217
“Enough,” Nichols said keeping his tone as soft as he could.
Bang, bang, bang! On the door downstairs, as loud as gun shots echoing
throughout the house. That alone was enough to send them all insane given
time, let alone the threat of violence it promised, Nichols thought. Or
perhaps even drive Ania and Lewis to throw Larry out of the window. He
looked at the Italian, no she wouldn't, there might come a time when all of
them would wanted to, but she would be first in line to stop anyone. Lewis
too wouldn't although he would never admit it, he was as committed as they
all where to saving McCulloch, the ingrate that he was.
So where was the collector? Nichols knew he was out there, lurking
somewhere in the darkness conducting this little nightmare. Also, he wasn't
sure if it was his imagination but the priest thought he caught the faint feel
and smell of static in the air. Things could get very bad, very quickly. That
phrase was rattling around in his head again.
Then the hammering stopped, leaving the room pin drop quiet apart
from their fearful breathing. They all exchanged a glance. What next?
A loud burst of static from Peroni's radio broke the silence and the Italian
cried out in shock, she fumbled with the radio almost dropping it as if it had
just tried to jump right out of her hand.
“Hello?” A weak voice said through the radio. “Hello... This is Jeff...
Come in, over.” The voice was laboured, the each syllable slurred but it was
Jeff.
“Oh, No,” Peroni closed her eyes and gritted her teeth.
“Hello?” The voice came again.
“Bastard,” Lewis cursed from the landing.
Not this, Peroni silently pleaded, anything but this.
“This is Jeff, over. Please come in... Lewis? Ania? Please come in, over.”
“Oh, Jeff,” Peroni fought back tears, she looked at her radio.
“Don't Ania,” Nichol's warned. She looked at him and he flinched at the
pain in her eyes. So much pain everywhere. He shook his head and she
nodded back.
218
“But it's Jeff,” Lewis called through. You can hear it's him. He sounds...”
But could not finish.
“That goes for you too, Lewis,” Nichols said, remembering he also had a
radio.
“But what if that bastard has got a gun to Jeff's head?” Lewis asked
desperately.
“Jeff's gone.” Nichols said it as plainly as he could but it wasn't easy
dismissing someone's life like that, the words stung him with guilt. “That's
not Jeff, or at least not the Jeff we knew.”
“Oh, fucking hell!” Larry exclaimed. “Have a word with yourself Father.
You can hear it's him, plain as day.”
They all jumped as one as the hammering started again.
“Please...” Jeff's tinny voice pleaded through the radio. “Please guys, let
me in... For pity's sake. Lewis? Lewis I know you're there, let me in mate,
please!”
Lewis let out a sob and through the door Peroni saw him take a step
towards the top of the stairs, his face a mask of indecision. “Lewis.” He
turned to her with tears in his eyes and she shook her head.
“He was just a kid,” Lewis said but came away from the stairs never the
less. He cleared his throat and wiped his eyes, then re-aimed back down, his
hands remarkably steady.
“I'm so sorry,” Nichols said although he wasn't sure who to.
“Please!!” The radio speaker distorted making Nichols wince at the
harshness of it as Jeff begged. “Please! Lewis, Ania... Anyone, Father
Nichols?”
The priest drawn in a sharp intake of breath hearing his name spoken by
a dead man.
“For pity sake, let me in! Please, anyone, just talk to me... Oh, guys I'm so
scared. He said he's going to hurt me again. Do you hear?”
He was sobbing now, Peroni screwed her eyes tight shut. “Please. Stop,”
she whispered.
219
“You don't know what he's done to me,” even through the small radio
speaker the accusation was clear in his strained voice. “It's... It's horrible... He
only wants McCulloch... He says we can all go free if we just give him
McCulloch.”
The old crook instinctively glanced at the others in the room, looking for
any sign they might relent to this. Christ knew he would in a humming bird’s
heartbeat if the roles were reversed. A quick mental calculation showed he
was clearly screwed if any of them did.
Nichol's wouldn't but that still left two guns and nothing but a priest to
protect him. Peroni was distracted, so if he was going to take matters into his
own hands, now might be the time, but he would have to be damn fast on his
feet to disarm the Italian before Lewis waded in. And he hadn't been fast on
his feet for over fifteen years.
“I know it's hard, but Jeff is already dead,” Nichols said breaking the
silence.
Normally, Larry would have made some quip at this ludicrous remark, but
as the priest had said himself, things were about as far from normal as they
could get. No, this time Larry was counting on them all swallowing this
voodoo bullshit, it just might be the only thing keeping him alive.
But the dead man at the door hadn't finished just yet.
“Why I'm I always the one left out in the cold? Why do you always leave
me on my own?” Jeff asked, still hammering on the door. “This is all your
fault!” He screamed. “All of you!!”
“Turn the fucking radio off,” Larry demanded.
“Why don't you all come down here and see what he's done to me?” Jeff
shouted. “Open the fucking door!! Then I'll show you what you've done. Let
– me – in!!”
“For Christ sake,” Larry was pleading now. “Turn it off.”
Peroni turned her radio off and threw it onto the bed. She let out a sob,
but bit back before more came.
“God damn him!” Lewis shouted from the landing. “Why doesn't he just
get on with it and come through that fucking door?”
220
“Lewis, please,” Nichols moved over to the bedroom door where he could
see the man aiming down the stairs and to the door beyond. He was rocking
nervously from his front foot to the back, his jaw clenching and unclenching.
“Lewis...”
“Hey!” Lewis screamed downstairs ignoring Nichols. “If you are so
tough. Why don't you let Jeff go and come in here yourself and see what I've
got for you?”
“Lewis!” Pernoni said sharply, she was at Nichols' shoulder now. “Calm
down!”
But Lewis was growing more agitated by the second and for one horrible
moment Nichols thought he might actually go storming down the stairs all
guns blazing.
“Father Nichols?” Lewis finally said only fractionally calmer for Peroni's
order. “That, that creature you told us about, the one the other collector
created in your church? Why doesn't the bastard send one of those things in
here now? If it was half as strong as you said, it could make kindling out of
that door.”
Unless it was all bullshit, Larry thought, but didn't say it out loud like he
would have normally done, remembering his precarious situation. Then to his
shock Lewis said it for him.
“If it is as real as you said.”
“Lewis, enough.” Peroni snapped.
“No, Ania it's alright,” Nichols said quietly. “It was real enough, Lewis,”
Nichols’ hand went instinctively to the scars on his chest.
“So you say,” Lewis replied not looking around.
Peroni pushed past Nichols to join Lewis on the landing, she placed her
free hand on his shoulder and he flinched at her touch.
“Ania...” Lewis said, his voice faltering with emotion. “You really sure
about all this?”
“Yes,” she answered. “And so are you.”
“Jeff... I can't believe he's...”
221
She squeezed his shoulder. “He's gone. Whatever is outside, that's not
Jeff. You know that, you know he wouldn't say those things.” Lewis nodded
and screwed his face up, he glanced at her, the fresh tears welling in his eyes
made them sparkle from the landing light above them. And Peroni had to
fight the urge to pull him close so they could mourn Jeff's loss together, but
that would have to wait for another time. Instead she just reached forwards
and turned off Lewis’ radio which was attached to his belt.
“All those things... All those things Father Nichols told us. About what
Randall is, what he's capable of.” Lewis said fighting more tears. “I didn't
believe any of it, not really. But Jeff always did.”
“I know,” Peroni said softly and rubbed his shoulder reassuringly. “But in
the end that doesn't matter. You stayed all the same, for us. So did Jeff.”
“Yeah,” he replied, his voice hoarse with emotion and gave he a smile
that nearly stuck to his exhausted face then returned his attention back down
stairs.
Nichols watched the exchange from the doorway with growing despair.
Jeff was surely dead, but far from at rest thanks to that demon out in the cold
who was playing with them, biding his time no doubt enjoying the grief he
was causing. And they were here, in this tomb, and it was all Nichols' fault, he
had been so sure of himself and his self-righteous crusade that he had
doomed them all to God only knew what fate.
“What have I done?” He whispered and thought of the contingency plan
he had stashed away in his room. The box he had so easily 'borrowed' from
the Vatican and never truly believed he would need. Was that lunatic course
of action really their only hope now?
If so, then God help them all.
THIRTY-ONE
It had been a relativity simple matter to locate the exact whereabouts of
the house Larry McCulloch was holed up in, once Ishrel had made the psychic
222
connection between Whitaker and Larry. Then it had just been a case of
following its ethereal trail until it led them to their destination.
Randall had been driving across town as Ishrel directed when quite by
accident the demon had picked up young Jeffery's own trail crossing their
path as they drove to McCulloch’s location. The demonic twosome then
followed the tendrils of power like some kind of hellish SAT NAV to an allnight petrol station where the young man had stopped for gas.
Even Randall could see the residual aura on Jeffrey from prolonged
exposure to their intended target. It clung to him in orange and grey swirls of
vapour, much in the same way the smell of smoke would cling to your clothes
long after a night spent drinking in a bar, back in the good old days when you
could still actually light up in one without fear of prosecution.
Then all it had taken was a quick calculation and Jeffrey’s fate was sealed.
They could kill the young man, then Randall would use the resurrection charm
he was so fond of to bring him kicking and screaming back to half-life. Then
Randall would have him drive them all to the safe house and help them gain
access with the minimum of fuss before any of the guards would have a
chance to wonder how the hell they just went from alive to dead in the blink
of a demon’s eye.
It was a good, if simple plan, but simple would do just fine at this late
stage in the game. Randall knew better than to complicate matters with
anything more theatrical. He had learnt from bitter experience in the past
that you can quite easily over play things given all the power at your
fingertips. So simple it was, for now. Boring, for sure but there would be time
to play with McCulloch once he was in their hands. Then and only then could
Randall indulge his more creative side.
And it had all very nearly worked too. He had followed the poor sap into
the bathroom and snapped his neck before he knew anything about it. Quick,
effective, painless. Then he had rustled up a hastily prepared resurrection
charm and stuck it to the dead man's forehead. The initial power release
which jump started the man's fading nervous system had blown out the
bathrooms windows but it was late enough that no one noticed or cared. It
all worked, well, like a charm. So they had then ditched Fraker's BMW and
caught a chauffeur driven ride with the deceased, but still very animated body
guard, who much against what little will of his own he had left had dutifully
223
filled Randall in on the security set up they had in place at the house,
(woefully inadequate as it turned out. Metal shutters on all the downstairs
windows, and just three guards in total and one of those a priest!)
But as misfortune would have it, one of the guards, (Lewis, apparently)
just happened to be conducting a sweep of the house's perimeter when they
turned onto the street and had spotted Randall in the car with Jeffrey, and
had as a result dashed back inside and quite literally pulled down he shutters.
Normally, this wouldn't have been a problem for a man of Randall's
resources, a welcome challenge in fact. They were all trapped in there,
McCulloch was definitely with them, and they all had nowhere to run.
However, something about the place wasn't quite right. The house itself was
ordinary enough, (metal shutters and armed occupants aside) but somewhere
at its heart, there was power in there.
Ishrel had sensed it first the moment they drove onto the street and now
refused to come any further to the house than the front gate. Randall had
dismissed this as cowardice until he had joined Jeffrey on the doorstep, and
now that he was within touching distance of the house he too could feel a
low pulsing energy coming from somewhere inside, it was sufficient to make
his head hurt and his skin itch at this distance but nothing more, so far. But it
was more than enough to prick his interest and as he had never felt anything
like it before, it awoke a sense of, if not fear, then certainly caution.
Randall turned a demon charm over in his hand mulling the problem
over, he could spark the charm and send it bursting in all teeth an claws to kill
everyone except McCulloch, that would be easy enough, but for the nagging
doubt gnawing at the back of his mind that whatever was in there radiating
that faint but sickeningly real power, might be unleashed in full and Randall
didn't like the idea of not knowing what that power might bring with it. He
considered this for a moment then pocketed the charm for now.
He glanced across at Jeffery as the dead man brought the radio back up
to his blue lips. “Please,” he wheezed. “Help... Me.”
“Good boy,” Randall praised. This wasn't quite as much fun as having his
foes inside ripped to shreds by a rampaging demon, but it would have to do
for now. And judging by the waves of fear he could feel coming from those
inside it was working a treat. “Keep it up, you're doing great.”
224
Having him plead pitifully to those inside through the radio had been a
nice piece of improvisation in lieu of bodily dismemberment. Although if they
had any brains between them they could just simply turn the radio off. But he
knew humans had an irrational attachment to fallen comrades and he
imagined they still held out the vain hope in there that Jeffrey was somehow
still saveable.
“Tell you what,” he instructed. “Hammer on the door some more.” And
the reanimated young bodyguard dutifully obeyed. Randall nodded
appreciatively and looked back down the path to where Ishrel was still
hovering by the gate. He had let the demon keep its beloved heat haze form
as a reward and had promised to let it stay that way for a while, (or at least
until the collector could think of something more amusing.)
“Ishrel, come on old man,” he called down the path. “You might be of
some use over here.”
“No.” Ishrel was adamant. “Can't you feel it?”
“It's nothing,” Randall lied. “Now come on, if things kick off, you can
always hide behind me.”
Reluctantly, the demon moved closer, muttering under its breath as it
floated down the path to where Randall was waiting. Then said louder.
“Don't think I won't, either. You're the foot soldier.” The heat haze of his
body undulated fitfully now he was closer to the house. “There's something
in there.”
“Yes, our target.”
“No, something else... Power.”
“Any idea what it is?”
“No.”
“Could it be a problem?”
“I can't tell,” Ishrel drifted a little closer to the door and shuddered as if
touched by a light breeze. “It's faint, like nothing I've ever come across
before, but I can tell you this much, it sickens me.”
Randall left it too and didn't relish going inside. “Could be nothing,” he
offered hopefully.
225
“It's weak, might be hidden, but if it is something more...”
“Then it could be a problem,” Randall finished the sentence for him.
“Hmm.”
Jeffrey slumped against the door like a drunkard, but still managed to
keep hammering away. Ishrel gestured to him with a shimmering limb.
“This approach isn't going to work.”
“Maybe. But it's fun and it's scaring them shitless. Can't you feel it? Give
it a few hours and you never know, they might be begging us to take
McCulloch.”
“A few hours?”
“What's the rush?” Randall asked. “You're not getting any older. Neither
am I come to think of it.”
“I insist you do something now. Get me McCulloch and slaughter the
others. All this, this humanity sickens me.”
Jeffrey was wheezing hard now, trying desperately to fight this nightmare
he was in, he took a faltering step back away from the door and made a vain
attempt to lift his leaden hand up and rip off the charm stuck to his forehead,
but his hand fell away lifelessly. He just about managed to turn stiffly to face
his tormentor, his broken neck grinding sickeningly as he did so. “Hell
spawn,” he choked out.
“Sticks and stones,” Randall replied.
“Randall, now!” Ishrel insisted.
Randall let out a sigh. “You're no fun at all Ishrel, you know that?” And
with that ripped the charm off Jeffrey's forehead.
“Oh, thank God.” Jeffrey just managed to say before the unnatural spark
behind his eyes vanished and he crumpled to the ground finally, thankfully
dead.
“Shame,” Randall lamented looking down at the corpse. “Waste of a
good resurrection that. Could have kept him going for days. Hey!
Remember that guy in New York a few years back?” He smiled at the
226
memory. “Kept him going for over a week. Began to stink up the place
though.”
Good times.
“Now Collector, do something.”
“Okay, okay. “Randall rummaged in his coat pocket and took out a
mobile phone, then with a wicked grin began to randomly punch in numbers.

THIRTY-TWO
A mobile phone ring tone went off to the aptly morbid tune of the ‘death
march’. Peroni instinctively looked at her phone but it was quite silent,
besides, who would have a ring tone like that?
“Well is somebody going to answer that or what?” Lewis shouted from
the landing. “It isn't mine.”
“It's not mine, either,” Peroni confirmed.
“Well it sure as shit isn't mine,” Larry said remembering his destroyed
phone down stairs. He plonked himself down on the bed making the springs
complain at his weight.
“It's mine,” Nichols said and took his phone out of his pocket, it was
ringing alright but the ring tone wasn't one he had ever had. He looked at
the caller ID and couldn't help but smile, albeit grimly.
“What's the number?” Peroni asked seeing Nichols reaction.
“Six, six, six.” Nichols replied and held the phone up for her to see.
“Jesus,” Larry snorted in disgust. “Just what I need, another fucking
comedian.” And the jokes on you Larry my boy he lamented to himself.
Nichols hit the answer button. “Satan's lap dog I presume?”
“Ha! Actually,” the caller replied. “He prefers cats. I take it you are the
lead holy man in there?”
He didn't know what he expected but the American’s voice was so
normal Nichols forgot to answer, after all what it's not every day you are on
227
the phone to a demon. It wasn't until he caught sight of Peroni and Larry
looking at him expectantly that he fazed back in again.
“Is it him?” Peroni mouthed and Nichols replied with a nod. “Put him on
speaker, Father,” she added.
He nodded again and put the phone on speaker so they could all hear
the American. “Waste of time asking how you got my number, I suppose.”
Nichols asked as nonchalantly as he could, although his heart was threatening
to burst right out of his chest, and he did his best to keep the tremble
building in his stomach out of his voice.
“It's all smoke and mirrors, Father,” Randall replied. “Now, I've got
another little trick up my sleeve. I want to come up and talk. Just talk, so tell
your goons... What are they called? Lewis and Peroni?”
Peroni shuddered at the mention of her name and Lewis cursed out on
the landing.
“Tell them to watch what they are shooting at,” Randall continued
through the speaker. “They wouldn't want to hit Larry now would they, in all
the confusion?
“Depends on which one of my goons you asked.” Nichols put his hand
over the mouth piece. “Heads up, Lewis.”
“Fucking A,” came the reply.
“Hey!” Larry interrupted. “What the hell are you talking to this guy for?
Hang up the fucking phone you moron.” He turned to Peroni. ”And you, call
the fucking cavalry, for Christ sakes.”
She held up her phone. “No signal, my phone is dead.”
“Shit!” Lewis called out. “Mine too, I had three bars a minute ago.”
“Mine too,” said Nichols looking at his phone, not that the demon
outside needed a network. He uncovered the mouth piece again and
swallowed hard before asking, “Where's Jeff?”
After half a minute of dead air, Randall finally replied. “In a better place
than any of you.”
228
Even though he knew that was coming the finality of Randall's words
made Nichols wince inwardly. He took a few seconds of his own before
replying in which time he could feel his blood boiling. “Right,” he said firmly.
“I'm going to lay this out simply for you. I've got protection in here, big
protection and I'm not talking about guns. We can stop you before you can
get anywhere near Larry.”
“That sounds like a threat,” Randall replied with a hint of sarcasm in his
voice.
“It's a promise,” Nichols stated. “We aren't going to give up Larry to you
or anyone...”
“I'm not just anyone holy man,” Randall interrupted.
“You're nothing,” Nichols said with a sneer. “You want Larry? Try and
take him. That's all.”
Nichols heard Randall breathe to speak on the other end but hung up
before he could get a word out.
“Yeah! Nice one Father,” Lewis said clearly impressed.
“Really? Not too much?” Nichols' hands were sweating so much now
that he nearly dropped the phone. He pocketed it and rubbed his palms on
his sleeves.
“Nar,” bang on I'd say.” Lewis said, loitering by the bedroom door and
beaming like a kid.
“Lewis, watch the stairs,” Peroni ordered, all business. “God only knows
what might come through the front door now.” She said this without taking
her eyes off Nichols, who although was looking pale from his confrontation
with the demon he was definitely back to his old self now as far as she was
concerned and despite their situation this helped steady her own nerves.
“Protection?” She asked.
He just exhaled deeply in response.
“Yeah, What protection?” Larry wanted to know. “If you've got
something up your sleeve, now's the fucking time, padre.”
229
The priest was trembling now and had gone white as a sheet. Seeing his
growing terror, Peroni moved forwards and took a hold of his shaking hand,
which was clammy to the touch.
“Father?” She ushered him over to a chair, intending to get him to sit
down before he fell down. “Father?” She said again, suddenly fearful herself.
Not of that unknown menace outside but of losing Father Nichols to that
paralyzing fear again and that this time he might not return from its grip just
when they needed him the most. She was about to guide him onto a chair
when he suddenly pulled away and looked at her as if she had just slapped
him in the face.
“God, Ania I'm sorry.” She was grateful to see his eyes focus once more
and he squeezed her hand reassuringly. “I'm alright,” he said softly and let
her hand go. “I'll be back in a moment,” this said he moved over to the door.
“It's going to be okay,” he said more to himself than her it seemed then was
gone.
“Were where the hell is he going?” Larry wanted to know.
She just shook her head in response, and tried to convince herself he was
coming back. In mind as well as body.
THIRTY-THREE
It felt so good to get out of Larry's room, with its almost overwhelmingly
oppressive atmosphere, its air heavy with such stale fear. When Nichols
stepped into his own room he motioned to turn on the light, an automatic
reflex, but caught himself mid-action, deciding instead to stay in the gloom.
There was more than enough light filtering through the closed curtains from
the street outside for him to do what he needed to do in here, then it would
be back into Larry room once more to face the consequences of actions taken
what seemed like half a life time ago when he was back in the Vatican,
plotting this impending meeting with the collector. This was what he had
wanted, what he had lay awake at night dreaming of.
230
This is what he had wanted all along, isn't it? So then, it was time to step
up and face it head on. There was no turning back now that the demon was
here, even if he wanted to.
He stood in the near darkness for a moment meditating on his next
move. He was sure Randall could have no idea what he was planning, and as
such would be full of brash over confidence, ready to make a move against
them and would soon make a move and enter the house to take what he had
come for. Larry McCulloch and to hell with the collateral damage that would
be Ania, Lewis and himself.
Unless. Unless this lunatic game plan of his actually worked. Nichols
shook his head at the absurdity of it all. By rights they should have no hope
of stopping the multitude of dark creations Randall had at his beck and call
should he choose to unleash them. Assuming that he had something like the
power Sofia had at her disposal that night half a life time ago.
The image of that darkness dripping nightmare that had scarred him so
deeply inside and out came crawling unbidden and unwelcome into his
mind’s eye. The memory made him physically shudder as he pictured it all
too vividly creeping down the aisle towards him.
He had been nothing more than a spectator that night, and even though
that was the reason he had survived, he was determined not to be one this
time around. And to do that, to be a protagonist in this little vignette of
horror he would have to keep his nerve and draw upon an, as yet, untapped
reserve of courage he wasn't sure he even had.
Only one way to find out old man. Now was the time, to either curl up in
a corner some place safe and hope against hope that the conflagration that
was coming on the heels of hell left him untouched. Ashamed but alive. Or
he could stand his ground and fight. And to hell with the consequences, if
that was the right choice of words given his present circumstance.
He smiled at this, gallows humour. That was a good sign if nothing else.
He took a deep breath as the bitter smile faded.
This was it. This was the nightmare scenario made flesh, the one he had
secretly dreaded since first arriving here, the moment he had prayed would
never come. But it came all the same. Proof positive that sometimes even
priests, no matter how righteous or just their cause may seem, don't always
231
have their prayers answered. A sobering thought and one, given that might
very well, given time to fester, lead a lifelong religious man to the brink of
atheism. But that was a theological debate for another day.
He thought of his cosy little life back at the Vatican, where he was
securely buried away deep in the archives. Safe and snug for over twenty
years in a world of theory and myth. Be careful what you wish for. Nichols
had spent night after endless night down there cursing the place and
dreaming of facing the darkness once more, stepping up to the mark, a man
without fear.
He was a fool, and worse still a fool who had now got exactly what he
had wanted. He was back in the real world with a real fight on his hands, and
so far he had equipped himself far less than well. And this time his folly had
dragged others into harm’s way. Good people, faithful and loyal to him (well,
and McCulloch). People who had looked to him for guidance and who he, so
far had let down so very badly. Tears of shame stung his eyes as he thought
of Ania and Lewis but mostly the tears came for Jeff. So young, your early
twenties was no age to die, not for someone so full of life.
“Jesus, protect me,” Nichols whispered and wiped the tears from his eyes.
“Not an atheist yet then?” He said out loud and crossed purposefully over to
his bed where he knelt down and reaching under it pulled out his suitcase.
He gently lifted it up and placed it carefully onto the bed.
Such and ordinary case a little battered from his years of travel but
otherwise quite unremarkable. What it contained however was anything but
ordinary.
His little theft from the Vatican. A small container no bigger than a shoe
box, priceless in itself, but what it was made to contain was more remarkable
still, and something that could save, or just as easily damn them all.
When the priest returned to the room carrying what looked to Larry for
all the world like an ornate jewellery box, his first thought was that Nichols
had finally taken leave of is senses and was going to spend the rest of this
sorry siege wearing drag and dripping with Demonte diamonds. Whist also
insisting everyone calls him Sister Mary or some such. The thought, despite
the desperate situation he was up to his neck in actually brought the first real
smile to Larry's face in what seemed like weeks.
232
“What the hell is that?” He asked with a smirk, nodding to the box. “Is
there something you want to get off your chest padre?” There was an audible
gasp from behind him.
“Is that what I think it is?” Peroni asked with nothing short of reverence
in her voice.
Nichols placed the box on a table avoiding her gaze.
The tone of Peroni's voice set Larry's teeth on edge. More religious
bullshit. “What are you gonna do?” He wanted to know. “Bribe him?”
“Is it?” Peroni asked again her eyes like saucers. The naked awe in her
voice unnerved Larry almost as much as that lurking bastard outside in the
street.
“If you two are gonna play dressing up or whatever.” Larry said. “Peroni,
give me your fucking gun. I'm gonna shoot myself and save us all the
trouble.”
“Another great idea,” came the inevitable response from Lewis outside.
Peroni looked at Larry with annoyance. “It's not a jewellery box,” she said
and returned her gaze to the gaudy box as if it were drawn there
magnetically. “It's the one thing that could keep us all alive.”
“Perhaps,” Nichols said a little too quickly.
“Well?” Larry said testily. “What the hell is it?” He got to his feet with a
grunt and approached the table, but Nichols stepped between him and the
box. “Hey!” He protested as Nichols put his hand on Larry's chest to keep
him back.
“Don't touch it!” Nichols snapped. Then lamely added, “It's old.”
“I thought they never let those out of the Vatican archives?” Peroni said
still so transfix by the box that Larry half expected her to fall to her knees and
prostrate herself in front of the thing.
“They don't,” Nichols replied. “I... I...” His voice fell away.
“You fucking stole it!” Larry said with delight. “Well Father, I must say
I'm impressed.”
233
“It's not like that,” Nichols objected his face flushing.
“Sure,” Larry replied sarcastically. “So, apart from being gaudy as hell.
What is it?”
“It's not the box,” Peroni said. “It's what's inside.”
Larry waited for the big reveal but neither Peroni or Nichols made to
speak. “Well?” He said impatiently.
“Mynor's poem.” Nichols said softly.
“Mynor's what?” It was Lewis, who was standing in the doorway poking
his head into the room took the words right out of Larry's mouth.
Larry nodded in agreement, he was expecting the holy hand grenade
from Monty Python at least or something a little more substantial than some
dusty old poem.
“You must have heard of it.” Peroni said.
“It's a myth isn't it?” Lewis replied.
“No,” Peroni insisted. “I saw one once, well a box like this, when I was
training, on a visit to the archives. That was where I first met Father Nichols.”
“Always asking questions,” Nichols said smiling at the memory. “Couldn't
shut her up.”
“Yeah,” Peroni said blushing. “But Father, how did you get it out of the
Vatican?”
“We've already had this discussion.” Larry said and turned to Lewis.
“And aren't you supposed to be watching the front door?”
“Shut up, Larry,” Lewis retorted not taking is eyes off the box, but unlike
Peroni he was frowning. “It's not real, is it?”
“Lewis,” Nichols interrupted. “Larry's right, please go back outside, keep
an eye on the stairs.”
Lewis glanced across at Peroni. “It's a myth.” He said and ducked back
outside.
“It's real,” she called after him. “This changes everything,” she said
excitedly to Nichols who was sweating profusely now.
234
“Alright, alright!” Nichols said, it came out harsher than he'd intended
and made Peroni start in shock. But he just couldn't keep his growing
frustration out of his voice. “Please, just calm down Ania. It's not that
simple.”
“But you do know how to use it?” Peroni asked with a hint of fear in her
voice.
“Yes, of course... I've studied it you years... It's, it's just not that simple.”
He said again.
“This is great news!” She added before Nichols could continue.
“Okay, okay,” Larry cut in. “When you've all finished debating. Can one
of you lot tell me what's so special about that fancy box? Huh? And what the
hell is Mynor's poem when it's at home?” He waited but neither Peroni or
Nichols moved to answer. “Well?”
“Nobody really knows that much about it,” Nichols tried to explain, he
was already regretting revealing the box. He took a moment to gather his
thoughts before continuing. “From what we have been able to piece together
over the years. Records show that Mynor was a eighteenth century alchemist
who lived in France. Although we cannot actually find any, it is said that he
wrote book after book about the existence of evil or what he called the
demons that walk among us, the bringers of chaos and misery. We are pretty
sure he was talking about collectors. Some say he actively fought them.
Other clam he may actually have been a collector himself, but one who have
rebelled against the darkness. The devil if you will.”
“Oh, come on,” Larry said rolling his eyes. “Spare me the history lesson,
Father,” he gestured to the box. “Cut to the part where that thing can save
my arse.”
It was Peroni who spoke next, seeing Nichols hesitate to continue. “That
box. If Father Nichols is correct, contains one of Mynor's poems. He was
supposedly, somehow able to create this...” She stopped, her English failing
her for a moment as she searched for the right word, one that didn't sound
too 'fantastical' considering her audience, but could only come up with one.
“Spell, I guess you would call it.”
“Spell? Christ on a bike!” Larry grimaced.
235
She shrugged apologetically but it really was the only word she could
think of that summed up what it was. “From what I’ve heard, it's a scroll, with
a short but powerful incantation written on it, by Mynor himself.” She was
struggling now and glanced desperately at Nichols for validation.
It took him an age but he finally nodded. “That exactly what it is, Ania.
Well done. Go on, you're doing great.”
She beamed, the perfect pupil. “Yes, thanks, well, anyway, if you recite the
poem correctly...”
“And in the presence of evil,” Nichols added.
“Yes, in the presence of evil, then it is supposed to create a type of...
Energy I guess you'd call it?” She turned to Nichols once again who knew
much more about this than she ever could. After all she had only ever seen
one of the boxes from a distance during her time at the Vatican, and that was
in a bullet proof glass case.
“I’ve heard it called the poem of the cleansing fire,” Nichols explained.
“In theory, once it is recited in the presence of anything born of darkness, a
collector or such, it burns the creature out of existence, with a flame greater
than the fires of hell itself.”
“So, you've studied this thing for a while?” Larry asked.
“Decades,” Nichols answered.
“So, have you tried it?”
The priest shifted nervously from foot to foot, much to Larry's
amusement. “No one has, not for centuries, there hasn't been a recorded case
since they started keeping records, and that's a long time. I've studied one of
the poems, spoken it many times, I know most of it backwards... But,” he
faltered. “But obviously never in the presence of evil.”
Without thinking, Nichols covered the box with a nearby towel as if
suddenly embarrassed by it.
“Obviously,” Larry said sarcastically. “Convenient, wouldn't you say? The
thing won't work unless in the presence of evil. So no bugger knows if it
actually works.”
“It will work,” Peroni said defiantly.
236
“But you don't know. More blind faith?” He goaded.
She was about to answer when Nichols cut her off. “Listen, I honestly
don't know if it will work,” he eyed the box. “Let's just hope we never have to
find out.”
“Then what's the fucking point?” Larry shouted with growing frustration.
“Why steal the thing anyway? You don't sound very convinced, Father.
Sounds like more religious bullshit to me,” he added bitterly.


THIRTY-FOUR
The sound of screaming metal, hot on the heels of shattering glass from
below them ended the argument in an instant. For a heartbeat everyone
froze, it was Lewis outside who reacted first.
“That's the living room window!” He shouted.
“Oh, no,” Peroni rushed to the door. “See anything?”
“No, not yet.” Lewis replied, his voice surprisingly calm given the
circumstances. “But I'll sure as shit let you know when I do.”
Despite everything Peroni paused. More bad language, she was about to
say something, when reality kicked in, with all that was going on, did that
really matter? She shook her head at the madness of it all. She knew it was a
running joke behind her back that she didn't like Lewis or poor Jeff swearing.
Such nonsense now, Peroni let out a little laugh at herself.
“Ania?”
She turned to Nichols, still smiling as the demolition of their defences
continued downstairs. “So much for the metal shutters,” she said.
Suddenly the whole side of the house seemed to shake as something
huge slammed against a wall downstairs. Peroni looked up to see the light
fitting above her head swaying.
“Jesus!” Larry shouted his eyes wide with terror, he back away until he hit
the far wall and would have gone further if physics would have allowed him
237
to. “Nichols, for Christ sake, use that thing now!” He pointed to the box on
the table, suddenly a believer.
Whatever had torn through the shudders could be heard now shifting it
considerable weight around the living room downstairs. It sounded massive.
Out on the landing, Lewis edged closer towards the top of the stairs and
leaned out over the bannister for a better look.
“Stay here Father,” Peroni instructed. She had the over whelming desire
to go over and touch the box for luck before he moved out to join Lewis, but
resisted. She caught a worried look on Nichols' face as he too looked at the
box. She frowned, even with all that was going on he was clearly hesitant to
use the poem’s power.
Perhaps he feared it wouldn't work. Or perhaps the exact opposite. After
all no one knew what would happen once you unleashed the cleansing fire. It
could very well engulf them all, innocent or not along with the collector and
his corrupted creations. Perhaps the entire street of innocents would be lost
too.
Not wanting to dwell on that scenario she gladly ran out on the landing
and joined Lewis' side. He nudged her shoulder in welcome. “See anything?”
She asked and peered over the bannister to the hallway below.
“Not yet, boss. But listen to the thing.”
Out here she could clearly hear the creature now, moving around in the
living room. Slowly shifting its bulk over to the doorway, which would bring it
out into the hall and into view. Steeling herself to what she might see, Peroni
aimed her pistol at the point just beyond the living room doorway, where the
thing should appear any second.
“Guess, you are a believer now,” she whispered impishly to Lewis.
“Ha! Something like that...” He replied and was about to add something
when the breath caught in his throat.
A long spindly shadow fell over the doorway down stairs and at first
Peroni thought it was cast by the thing inside the living room, so she braced
herself for the grand entrance, she rested her elbow on the bannister to
steady her aim and silently wished she could do the same for her racing
heartbeat. But doing so she immediately realised her error. What she had first
238
thought to be the shadow of the thing was actually the long spindly limb of
the creature itself, which came stretching out into the hallway uncurling a full
six feet in length but only two inches or so in width. It was followed by
another limb, then another as the thing began to force its way through the
doorway. It put Peroni in mind of the legs of a giant hermit crab emerging
from its shell, but one made of shadow itself.
“Mother of God,” she uttered as it squeezed itself through and almost fell
into the hallway. Although the hall light was on down there, the form of the
creature refused to give the observer anything but the merest fixed detail of
its texture, it was a mess of geometry and Peroni struggled to make out even
the most rudimentary form within its bulk.
The thing was a mass of swirling smoke and shadow somehow bound
into the vaguest of forms that could, with some imagination, lay claim to
being its body. But the only truly recognisable elements to the beast where
its legs, which unfolded from its 'body' much as the legs of a spider might as
it emerged from the darkest recesses of its web to slowly crawl along towards
some poor trapped and struggling insect.
As Peroni watched it creep down the hallway and over to the foot of the
stairs, she thanked God she couldn't make out anything but the slightest
detail in the dark and undulating mass that was its body, because she knew
for certain if she could, it would send her screaming off in blind panic. As it
was the growing horror welling in her stomach was threatening to overwhelm
her, so she focused on the barrel of her pistol so the thing was just an out of
focus blur beyond, but still her eyes refused to be misdirected.
The thing slowly began to crawl up the stairs now like something ripped
from a sick child's arachnophobic fever dream.
“Fuck this,” Lewis spat, breaking the creatures hypnotic hold on Peroni
and he opened fire, five shots in rapid succession into the things body, but as
Peroni watched, the bullets simply passed through its body as if it was indeed
just made of smoke, and ripped into the stairs sending up a shower of
splinters into the air. The monster didn't so much as shudder as the bullets
passed through its form, nor did the assault slow its ascension. Step by
terrifying step it just kept coming.
“Jesus!” It was Larry from the room behind. “What the fuck is going on
out there?”
239
Peroni chanced a glance over her shoulder to see Larry and Father
Nichols were in the doorway, wide eyed and pale faced. Larry said something
else but the thunder of her heat beat in her ears drown it out.
“Stay back,” she warned and jumped as Lewis fired off three more
rounds. The report of the shots bounced off the walls around her impossibly
loud and the smell of gun smoke stung her nostrils.
“It's not stopping!” Lewis screamed.
“What's not stopping?” Nichols shouted.
“Believe me,” Peroni said suddenly nauseous. “You don't want to know.”
She took a deep breath but it tasted of cordite and fear making her gag.
“Ania?” Nichols moved to help her as she staggered but she ushered
him back.
“No! Stay in the room,” she ordered, her head swimming and was
grateful to see Nichols step back inside as she wasn't sure she had the
strength to stop him if he had come out. She turned back to Lewis, the
sudden movement made her head spin all the more. She rested her elbow on
the bannister and looked down.
The thing was still only half way up the stairs, taking its own sweet time,
when it moved she caught glimpses of the stairs through its squirming form.
How do you shoot something made of darkness itself?
Lewis fired two more rounds into its ethereal form which as before just
struck the wood of the stairs beneath it causing little more than a ripple in its
insubstantial flesh.
“It's not stopping,” Lewis shouted again.
She nodded weakly, the smell of gun smoke making her nauseous.
“Ania, I have to see,” it was Nichols, behind her again.
“Why?” She asked, he was at the door again, this time he took a step
onto the landing. “It's nothing you haven't seen before,” she said
remembering Nichols tale of the beast in his church all those years ago, that
fateful night which had led them all here, to God only knew what end.
240
Nichols took another step and Ania moved falteringly over to him, she
was about to tell him to get back in the damn room when the beast behind
her screamed.
It felt and sounded like a stun grenade filled with a thousand Banshees
had gone off at her back and she was hit by a physical shock wave from the
unholy sound which pitched her forwards and into Nichols and sent them
both sprawling to the floor of Larry's room. Peroni rolled off the priest but
could only get to her knees, gasping for breath she tried to shake off the
shock but the bells in her head only grew louder with the sudden movement.
“Lewis! Get in here!” Nichols was screaming but he sounded like an old
record heard through busted speakers.
She was vaguely aware of shaking her head 'no', but couldn't swear to it,
she might just have easily have shouted the word for all she knew. Peroni
swooned and before she knew it she was on her back on the floor again
staring dumbly up at the ceiling. She rolled over and got slowly to her knees
again but the room kept on spinning, she gulped in lungful’s of stale air. All
hell was breaking loose around her but she couldn’t do anything but flounder.
Gunfire behind her now, Lewis bravely blasting away at what much surely
now be his last stand. The reports of the shots should have been jarring, but
seemed a million miles away. As she fought hard against the growing tide of
hysteria that was threatening to over whelm her senses, the thing must be at
the top of the stairs now in all its horrific glory. Larry was in the corner of the
room, deathly white staring in horror across the room to the door which was
behind her.
She thought Lewis shouted something, was it her name? Then he fell
silent. First Jeff, now Lewis, lost to the darkness. Peroni screwed her eyes
tight shut, in a vain attempt to block it all out, she knew she had to do
something, anything but she just couldn't get to her feet and turn around and
face the end head on. If it was coming she would just have to keep her eyes
closed and pray it would be quick.
Something brushed her shoulder and despite herself she opened her
eyes, Nichols staggered into her field of vision, his mouth gaping open. He
reached down and dragged her to her feet. She could feel his breath on her
face, he was shouting something at her but her fear addled brain refused to
process the words. She swooned a little again and her vision darkened. Was
241
that catatonia's approaching blackout? Or was the monster on the stairs
finally in the room, at her back, ready to claim her?
Tears sprung into her eyes blurring what little vision she had left. Nichols
griped her shoulders hard and began shaking her. Or so she thought, or
perhaps it was that creeping death’s spidery embrace, ready to drag her to
hell.
“I don't know what to do,” she sobbed at Nichols, finally finding her
voice.
The priest's mouth was moving again but no sound that she could hear
was coming out, even though he was only inches from her.
Then they came, quiet as a whisper even though he was screaming at
her. “He's here!” He shook her hard and looked over her shoulder.
He's here. That was what he had said.
But who?
Peroni felt herself slipping again despite Nichols’ screaming in her face,
black blotches in her vision threatened to take her sight altogether.
Was this the end?


THIRTY-FIVE
Father Nichols slapped Peroni hard across the face and a split second
later all her senses came rushing back.
“He's here!” Nichols repeated, clear as day.
“Who?” She said numbly.
“Ania,” Nichols said desperately. “Snap out of it!” He took a hold of her
shoulders and physically turned her around to face the empty doorway. Lewis
was gone, as was the creeping nightmare. Then came the sound of
movement from the landing just out of sight. Peroni instinctively raised her
pistol, aiming at the doorway.
242
“Thank God,” Peroni felt a rush of relief, it was Lewis, his voice sounded
muffled and the words was choked out and with some effort, but at least that
meant he was still alive.
Then Lewis was dragged into the doorway by a smartly dressed man of
no more than thirty, his appearance caught her off guard somewhat, she had
been expecting the demon, or another diabolical creation. Not a... Well stock
broker. He had Lewis in front of him so he could use him as a human shield.
Lewis struggled wildly causing himself more discomfort, but the man, despite
his somewhat slight frame hardly seemed to need to exert himself at all to
maintain his grip.
“Randall,” Nichols breathed from behind her.
Randall raised an eyebrow at hearing his name and a slight grin snaked
across his face. Peroni aimed as best she could at the collector. But even
though he was a good foot taller than Lewis, she couldn't get a clear shot,
deep down she was grateful for this having never actual fired her weapon in
anger at a person before.
Perhaps in the safe surroundings of the police firing range she may have
taken the shot, but here, with her nerves in tatters and a dear friend’s life on
the line she hesitated and eased her finger off the trigger a little. A small but
significant action (or inaction) she hoped she wouldn't live to regret.
“Easy now, sweetheart,” Randall said casually wondering if she could
actually hit him from behind his human shield. She had fear in her eyes, but
the gun in her hand was steady enough. He slipped his arm around Lewis'
neck and stooped slightly, just to be sure.
“Shoot him, Ania,” Lewis managed to choke out. He tried to pull away to
give her a better shot but Randall had him good and tight.
“Now that kind of talk is going to get your neck snapped, buddy,”
Randall warned, and just to make sure he got the point he squeezed his neck
harder.
“Okay, okay,” Lewis spluttered and Randall relaxed his grip a little.
“Careful where you're aiming that thing,” Randall told Peroni, motioning
to her pistol. He still couldn't tell by her demeanour if she was going to take
the shot or not.
243
“Lewis, you unharmed?” She said with a pained expression on her face,
seeing his discomfort.
“Sorry Boss, he came out of nowhere. That thing. That thing on the
stairs...” He paused gasping for breath. “It was an illusion, a fucking
distraction.”
“I thank you,” Randall said giving a little bow of the head. “Some of my
best work, and all improvised I might add.” He studied them with something
akin to disappointment. Was this it? Super cop with the gun, Larry
McCulloch, who was cowering in the corner looking like he was about to shit
himself, or already had. Lewis here, and a priest?
So where was that power coming from? He had felt it when he came into
the room, something in here was making him sick to his stomach not to
mention raising the hairs on the back of his neck. He gave the priest the once
over, which made the holy man cringe under his scrutiny. There was
something about the man that Randall couldn't quite pin down.
Then it came to him.
“You've been touched,” he said in an almost accusatory tone.
The priest took a step back, what little colour left in his cheeks draining
away, and his hand came up to his chest. Yes that was it. The priest had met
one of his kind before. He practically reeked of it now. Fear, plenty of that,
but then again the room was swimming in it. But tinged with something else,
that residue of familiar power. Very weak, but there all the same.
Randall was sure that wasn't what he had sensed outside, and what Ishrel
had been so afraid of. No, this one had the smell of an old school demon
about him. Randall concentrated on the man's chest, where his hand had
strayed and could see the faintest trace of dark energy where the beast had
made contact with his flesh.
And the hint of something else, the scent of a collector, it had all but
faded over time but some still clung to the priest’s skin, like the lingering
scent of an old lover’s perfume.
“Interesting,” Randall said absently.
“Let him go,” Peroni ordered and made a point of re-aiming at Randall's
head.
244
“Don't think so,” Randall replied. “Now, come on, put the gun away. You
could hit your buddy here,” he squeezed Lewis for effect, making him grunt.
“Or worse still, me.”
“Shoot him, for Christ sake!” Larry shouted from his pathetic hiding place
in the corner, where he had pressed himself against the wall as if trying
magically to pass through it and away.
“Larry, shut up,” Peroni said through gritted teeth, not taking her eyes off
Randall for a moment.
“Smart girl,” Randall praised.
“Jesus!” Larry shouted. “Do something!”
“Everyone calm down,” Nichols said with surprising authority. Then to
Randall in a softer tone. “Please, let him go.”
“Okay,” Randall agreed and slowly loosened his grip on Lewis. “Now,
Lady. Ania, right? Put the gun away and I'll release him.”
Peroni narrowed her eyes suspiciously.
“I just wanna talk,” Randall continued. “Besides, shooting me won't do
you any good. Sure, it'll hurt like hell, but it won't kill me.”
Peroni didn't move and despite herself was giving serious consideration
to shooting the American anyway. “Causing you pain would be start,” she
said to the collector, which raised a smile from the American.
“Ania,” Nichols coaxed, and moved to her side. “Please.”
After a moment she relented and reluctantly lowered her pistol. Randall
nodded for her to holster the weapon which she duly did and took a step
back.
“There ya go,” Randall said and released Lewis who staggered over to
Peroni rubbing his bruised neck. “Hey,” Randall called after him and Lewis
glanced back at the American with a look of impressive contempt in his eyes.
Randall tossed him his pistol which Lewis caught awkwardly. “Don't hurt
yourself with it.”
Lewis turned the weapon over in his hands, obviously contemplating
murder, but then gave a sigh of resignation and holstered it, his face like
thunder.
245
Peroni put her hand on his shoulder. “You okay?”
“Yeah,” he replied hoarsely and rubbed his neck again. “Look, I'm sorry...”
“Don't be,” she told him and turned her attention back to Randall, who
was smiling broadly. He folded his arms, clearly enjoying himself.
So this was the famous Randall. A collector of souls. If she hadn't have
seen that horrible thing on the stairs, she would have found it hard, looking at
him now to believe he wasn't anything more than just a smart arsed
American. But then again what had she been expecting. Horns and a forked
tail?
“Alright,” Nichols said after some time. “So, you are here. What do you
have to say?”
The collector took his sweet time he looked at each of them in turn, still
smiling that smile of quiet confidence. Despite the odds of three to one (and
Larry but he surely didn't count if it came to a fight) he was in control here, he
knew it, they all did. So why rush?
Nichols found himself gawking at the man. He was not what he had
expected at all. Nothing about him pointed to him being of the same species
as the tramp McCready. McCready had been sick and tired of the game he
had been paying for what Nichols had come to understand as over a hundred
years. He had crossed paths with an old man at the end of his life, eager for
the end. Whereas Randall here looked like he was just setting out on his
journey of terror, and by the looks of things was clearly enjoying every misery
filled minute of it.
The priest had to fight the urge to bombard Randall with questions.
Lame ones like; What was it like being a collector? What recollection did he
have of his former life? Did he think of himself as truly evil? All lame, and all
leading to one inevitable subject. Most of all he wanted to know about her,
the dark Goddess, Sofia.
Did the collector know her? Was she still alive? Nichols so desperately
wanted to know, but he found himself actually biting his tongue to keep the
questions at bay. Not the time, not the place.
246
After what seemed like minutes, it was the collector who finally broke the
charged silence. “Well, well, well. What a motley bunch you have hooked up
with this time, Larry.”
“Have we met?” Larry asked. He was trying to keep his cool, which he
was just about managing to do. Still, he glanced furtively past Randall and to
the stairs beyond, and gave serious thought to making a very undignified run
for it. He even thought about making a lunge for Lewis' gun while the man
was still flustered from Randall's attack. No, he was past such heroics at his
age.
Instead his gaze came to rest on the box under the towel on the table.
Christ, I must be desperate he concluded grimly.
“Go on, Nichols,” Larry said.
“Shut up, Larry,” the priest snapped, his face reddening, eyes locked on
the American.
“Show him,” Larry insisted.
“I said shut up,” Nichols repeated, this time with real venom.
This won a bemused look from Randall. “Show me what?”
“Let's just say, it would be prudent for you to leave.” Nichols warned,
although there was no conviction in his voice.
“Prudent?” Randall mocked. “No, I don't think so. We all know this is
going to end one way. Larry McCulloch in bloody pieces. The only variable as
I see it is if you three God squaders join him or not.” He met each of their
eyes slowly and deliberately in turn as he spoke to make sure they all got the
point, they did.
The fear in the room now was almost overpowering, and might have
been if not for that nagging feeling something in this place was amiss. He
dismissed it as best he could and took in the room again. Yes he may be an
agent of the Lord of Lies, but what he had said was fact, and they all knew it.
It was just a matter of how they would react.
“Look...” Nichols voice cracked and he silently cursed the growing fear in
it. He cleared his throat and carried on as best he could. “This will not go the
way you had planned. You must let Larry be. You will have other chances, I'm
sure. But not today.” He was as surprised as anyone as his voice grew
247
stronger with every word, but it did. It was now the collector who frowned.
Which gave Nichols more confidence still.
Strange, this one. Randall thought as he studied the priest. There was
something about him. He had the feel of someone who had been in this type
of situation before, to a greater or lesser extent. The man had hints of
darkness about him from whatever brief encounter he had once had with his
kind.
But what possible fight could he hope to put up in the face of such
power? In the end, words were weak and actions were power in Randall's
world and it was time to show his. He dug into his jacket pocket and took out
a demon charm he has scrawled on the back of a playing card.
In response, both Lewis and Peroni instantly drew their weapons and
trained them on Randall, faces set in grim determination. Nichols held his
breath and closed his eyes in anticipation of the blaze of gunfire to follow.
“Take it easy,” Randall said, staring down the barrels of the two pistols
aimed at his face. (And got a massive sense of deja vu) “This is just a par-lay,
nobody needs to get hurt, just yet. Okay?”
And Nichols opened his eyes again when thankfully the demon's
question was punctuated with silence and not the loud report of two hastily
drawn pistols.
“It's okay, Ania, Lewis.” They both glanced at him and he nodded
reassuringly before gesturing for them to holster their weapons. This Peroni
did instantly, but it took Lewis a few more seconds and a withering look from
Peroni to do the same.
“Very smart,” Randall said still holding up the card. “After all,” he added.
“You may have the guns, but I hold all the cards.”
Until now, Nichols had deliberately been standing between Randall and
the box to obscure it from his view, all the while hoping he wouldn't have to
reveal it. However, that option, if it had ever actually been one, was long
gone now. So he steeled himself for the unknown and stepped to the side of
the table, revealing the box under the towel.
“Not all the cards, collector,” he said and whipped the towel away rather
more theatrically than he had intended.
248
The sight, finally, of the source of that nagging power nearly froze the
blood in Randall's veins. He felt a surge of panic the like of which he had not
felt since the night of his death, rise up from his bowels, and it took all his
powers of self-control to stop himself gasping like a frightened school boy.
A gaudy looking box, so typical of the Vatican sat on the table.
Expensive and interesting perhaps to the casual observer, but to a collector it
had the same impact of being in a room with a live, ticking nuclear bomb.
Now there was no doubt where the source of that power he had first felt
outside was radiating from.
The one Ishrel had been so afraid of.
As a box it was remarkable enough as an artefact. But as with all boxes
interesting or not, it was what was inside that counted.
Mynor's Poem. Shit.
“Hmm... That's an interesting looking box you've got there, Father.”
Randall said as nonchalantly as he could, however there was no way he could
totally disguise the fear in his voice. He cursed himself seeing that the priest
noticed it to, but carried on regardless. “Is that?” His throat was as dry as
dust. “Is that what I think it is?”
The power in the room had shifted in an instant and they both knew it.
“Yes it is,” Nichols answered with new found confidence.
“You know, amongst my kind, it's said that famous poem of Mynor's is
nothing more than a myth. Dreamt up by the Vatican to scare us.”
“For a demon, you are a bad liar.”
“Technically I'm not a demon, but I'll let that slide for now,” Randall
replied. He kept the priest’s gaze as best he could, looking for any sign of a
bluff. Did he really know what he had there? But Nichols held firm under
Randall's scrutiny, if he didn't, Randall thought, then it was he who was the
liar, and a damn good one at that.
Peroni stepped to Nichols side, taking strength from his courage. Lewis
did the same, still rubbing his bruised neck.
“Well,” Lewis croaked. “That'll be the tables well and truly turned then.”
A good old fashioned standoff.
249
Finally, Nichols spoke. “So, what now?”
The priest was bordering on the cocky now, Randall thought and he
didn't like it. “Nothing's changed,” he said. “I want McCulloch.” Randall
looked menacingly at Larry, who was still cowering in the corner behind
Nichols and the others. It seemed that despite himself, the old crook had
chosen his protectors better than he had first thought. 'Lucky' Larry indeed.
“Larry has a long overdue date with a very bitter end.”
“I can't let you have him, Randall.” Nichols stated.
“I know it,” Randall said returning his attention to the trio. “I just thought
I’d give you a chance to save yourselves. Just walk away.”
“Because you are such a nice guy?” Peroni sneered.
“No,” Randall replied. “Just lazy. So is it to be the easy way, or the hard
way?”
The Italian could see the veneer of confidence fading from Randall by the
second at this new turn of events, clearly a man used to being in charge, he
was hiding it well but the whole air of him had changed. And for the first
time in hours she felt a glimmer of hope.
“I think I speak for all of us,” she said, pressing their advantage. “When I
say it has to be the hard way, demon.” She took out her pistol and held it by
her side, just in case he tried to make an ill-advised grab for the precious box.
“Here, here,” Lewis agreed and he too drew his pistol again and made a
show of cocking back the hammer.
The collector straightened at the threat and raised an eyebrow. “Really?”
He said.
“Really,” Lewis replied.
“Or,” Nichols interjected before things escalated. “You could just turn
around and leave. Tell your people, or whatever they are, you couldn't find
Larry.” Nichols suddenly shuddered at an unseen presence in the room, it felt
like a dozen demons dancing on his grave. It felt like he was back in St James’
just before that creature appeared, he looked to the door but it was empty as
was the landing beyond. Still it made him uneasy.
250
Randall watched Ishrel’s shimmering form creep in to the room on his tip
toes as if he was stealthy enough no one would notice. Randall shook his
head. Clown.
“Yeah, yank,” Lewis said taking a step forwards little suspecting he was
now face to face with Ishrel. “What are they going to do, fire you?”
This new found bravado was spreading like swine flu though the do
gooders.
Ishrel scrutinised Lewis face, then tuned to Randall. “Don't you even
think about it, Randall.”
“I wasn't,” Randall replied. And just out of malice Randall made the
demon turn back into a school girl wearing a Halloween mask again. He was
disappointed it didn’t make him feel any better about this new turn of events.
Ishrel for his part didn’t even seem to notice, he was so transfix by the box.
Randall watched as Ishrel took a tentative step towards the box on the
table, then begin to shake so much Randall thought his mask would fall right
off his face, then after a moment the demon/school girl scuttled back behind
Randall, shielding himself from the poem’s power.
“Coward,” Randall said and wished he could kick the little shit in the
pants.
The three of them looked at Randall quizzically as he seemed to zone out
somewhat and say 'coward' over his shoulder. They exchanged a look of
bewilderment followed by a round of shrugs.
Ishrel peered from behind Randall’s leg. “Randall, grab the box,” he
whimpered.
“Ha! Yeah, right.” Randall snorted in response.
Nichols cleared his throat and Randall looked at him as if he had just
appeared out of thin air. “Oh, sorry,” Randall said. “Now, where were we?”
“You were just leaving,” Lewis said.
Randall took in the room and weighed up his options. The truth was
nobody, not the priest, he suspected, not even himself or Ishrel knew what
would happen if he was able to unleash the full power of the poem right here
in this little corner of suburbia. He cursed his lack of preparation, the demon
251
charm he had in his hand was just a bluff, the spent one he had used to
summon the demon on the stairs, which in itself was nothing more than a
mere illusion he had conjured to mask his arrival and scare the shit out of
everyone in the room. It had worked perfectly but had no real power of its
own. It couldn't attack or defend Randall, which was why it had not been
affected by the power radiating from the box.
If only he had prepared another, something with a bit more bite so to
speak. He doubted it would have done much once it felt the power of the
poem’s presence, but it may have caused just about enough blind panic to
allow Randall time to take the box, or at least try to destroy it. If that were
even possible.
But this was all conjecture anyway, in the presence of the box any of his
creatures would just turn tail and run, if his brand of magic would even work
at all this close to the poem. Also would one of his kind even be able to
touch the thing?
He had heard the stories of course, of the mythical Mynor’s poem and its
potential, but it had always sounded like so much horse shit to him. Until
now.
Anyway, he told himself, there would be time enough to worry about the
poem later. This was just a recce a prelude to the end game but that was all.
And it had born fruit. McCulloch was here for sure, if not for the taking just
yet. But at least he wasn't going anywhere, poem or no poem he wasn't
going to leave this place with body, let alone soul intact.
Ah, the poem. Just what did the priest know about its potential? What
did anyone? Certainly not Randall. He smiled, and just couldn't help himself
saying, “How do I know that thing is even real?”
“Randall! Don't provoke him!” Ishrel pleaded and scuttled away to the
doorway, ready to beat a hasty retreat.
Nichols moved around the back of the table and slid the box over to
himself, slowly and deliberately. “Ania, Lewis. Cover me would you please?”
The two of them made a great show of re-aiming at Randall as the priest
carefully opened the box.
The effect was instantaneous, an almost physical blow to Randall's chest.
252
Ishrel screamed like a girl and was gone in a heartbeat.
The pressure in the whole room seemed to become oppressive as the
sickening power emerged from the open box. It felt like a stun grenade has
suddenly gone off, but in extreme slow motion. A wave of power pulsating
out from the box. It hit Randall, almost knocking the wind right out of him,
and he had to fight the urge to just turn tail and run. An urge which
increased with every passing second the box was open.
Randall was the trigger, if he hadn't been in the room he was sure the
effect would be negligible at best. The presence of evil had kicked the scroll
into life. Wave after wave of pulsating energy broke over the collector and it
took all his will not to stagger back a pace or two. It was like standing close
to a massive bass speaker. Boom, Boom, Boom.
By the surprised look on the faces of the others, they felt it to, but not as
acutely as Randall. Then a look of sheer terror flashed across Nichol's face as
he prepared himself to read aloud. He glanced up at Randall, is face ashen
now. He was terrified of what he was about to unleash. It could make the
whole city burn for all the priest knew. Randall grabbed onto that terror with
both hands gladly taking it as a cue for a ceasefire.
“Okay, Okay. Point taken,” Randall blurted. “Take it easy holy man. I
believe you.”
There was a tangible feeling of collective relief around the room as
Nichols gently closed the lid and Randall felt like he could breathe again. The
priest slumped slightly and had to brace himself against the table with both
hands to avoid collapsing.
“Now,” Nichols said breathlessly. “Get out, or do you want me to
continue?”
“No need for that,” Randall said. This wasn't his finest hour, but the
priest had given him a get out where he could keep at least a little dignity
intact. “I'll go,” he conceded.
“See Mister Randall out will you, Lewis?” Nichols asked.
“That would be my absolute pleasure,” Lewis replied. He gestured
towards the door. “After you hell spawn.”
253
“I'll see myself out, thanks,” Randall replied testily, then turned to
McCulloch who was still cowering in the corner with an almost comical look
on bemusement on his face. “I will see you soon, Larry.”
McCulloch just gawked at him, so Randall turned and walked off, out of
the room and down the stairs. He was glad no one in the room could see the
look of shame on his face. If his entrance had been triumphant, his exit was
quite the reverse. He was just thankful Ishrel had beaten a retreat first. He
could not have lived with himself if the little bastard had seen this.
For a full twenty seconds everyone in the room just stared after him in
shock. Peroni snapped out of it first. “Father, you did it!” She said excitedly
and rushed over to give him a rib cracking hug.”
“Thanks,” he said meekly and marvelled at just how strong she was.
“Yeah!” Lewis shook his head in disbelief and went over to the door just
to make sure Randall was really gone. “That was something else.”
“It was too close,” Nichols replied as Peroni finally released him. “Too
close.”
Now that the immediate danger had passed, Larry leapt up and into the
centre of the room, his arms flailing. “What the hell is wrong with you? Why
didn't you cream that bastard?” He wanted to know.
“Larry, please...” Nichols barely had enough energy to slope over to the
bed, once there he sat down hard holding his head in his hands, exhausted.
Tears were close but he fought them off.
“Never mind that,” Larry continued. “Don't you see him? He was shitting
himself. You could have ended this there and then.”
Nichols had neither the strength nor the desire to argue. He stared
down at his hands that hadn't stopped shaking since he'd opened the box. He
shuddered inwardly at its dark horrible power. How could such a thing
created to fight evil feel so malevolent. He could smell it on him. Pure
dripping evil.
“Well?” Larry insisted.
“Larry, leave him alone, can't you see what it's done to him?” Peroni said.
“Bollocks, he lost his nerve.”
254
Before Larry could react, Peroni lunged at him, grabbing him by the
scruff of the neck. “Can't you just be glad he's gone, you ungrateful...” She
bit her lip and pushed him away. Larry staggered backwards until he hit the
wall.
“Fucking bitch,” he blurted and was about to lay into her when Lewis
moved in between them both.
“Now, now, folks, let's all just calm down, eh?” He gently pushed Larry
back, but keeping his eye on Peroni. She nodded and turned away. “That's
better. “ He straightened Larry sweat soaked shirt. “No harm done.”
Larry knocked his hands away and moved to curse Peroni again but the
way she snapped her head back around and the look of murder in her eyes
suggested discretion was the better option as he clearly might just get a
smack in the mouth for his trouble. That and she had a gun.


THIRTY-SIX
When Randall got outside, he had managed to regain most of his
shattered composure. As he stepped out into the bitter morning air he found
Ishrel at the gate at the end of the over ground garden path. The demon had
managed to shed the humiliating form Randall had chosen for it and had
instead of the normal heat haze it had in fact reverted to the form of a
deformed imp like creature which Randall hadn’t seen for a good long while.
It looked to Randall like a cross between a lizard and a skinned ape with
its black scaly skin and arms and legs just too long for its body, like they had
been put through a wringer. Ishrel hopped up to sit precariously on the gate
and slapped his spindly hands together excitedly, a toothy grin ripped across
his hideous face.
This incarnation was Ishrel's own creation, he knew it took the demon
quite a bit of power to counjure. Out of spite Randall briefly contemplated
changing the demon into something more comical again to lighten his mood,
but the truth of it was this form suited Ishrel and although he was loathed to
admit it, for all Randall longing for human company, recent events showed all
to clearly that it was company he no longer belong in.
255
There was something strangely comforting being around a good old
fashioned looking demon again. He was with his own kind around the
creature and maybe he should just accept that fact and stop pining after a life
long since lost.
“Lucifer in a night shirt,” Randall said approaching Ishrel. “Did you feel
that thing?”
“And that was just from him opening the box!” Ishrel said still clapping
and nodding his head vigorously like a nightmare version of one of those
cymbal clashing old monkey toys. “Imagine if the priest has actually recited
the verse!” Ishrel's cat-like eyes flashed with perverse excitement.
“Yeah,” Randall replied and lent against the gate next to him. He looked
up at the house. “Mynor's fucking poem. Who would have thought it?”
Ishrel nodded and began drumming his hands on his legs as he sat.
“Hmm,”
“You could say it complicates things.” Randall said mulling over his next
move. At last a challenge, well he had wanted things to liven up and they
certainly had.
“It changes everything, forget McCulloch,” Ishrel ordered. “It is now your
duty to get that poem.”
Randall cringed inwardly, he knew that was coming.
“It is a prize worthy of the fallen one himself,” Ishrel continued eyes wide
as he imagined the potential glory. “We must get our hands on it.”
Our hands? Randall thought there was only one of them who was going
to have to get his hands dirty and it wasn't the lizard monkey boy perched on
the gate. “Forget it, Ishrel,” Randall said firmly. “My brief is to get McCulloch,
that's all. You can keep your ancient games.
“I insist!” Ishrel said and jumped down from the gate. He did his best to
square up against the six foot collector, but barely came up to his chest. “I
am ordering you to get that poem.”
It was all Randall could do not to laugh down into Ishrel's crumpled face.
“I don't care,” he told him in his best condescending tone. “Put it out of your
tiny little mind. Now why don't you slide back up there out of the way, and let
256
me think.” Randall said patting the gate. “Better still, pop off and get me
some info on how I can fight that thing or at least get round it.”
The demon folded his arms and pouted like a petulant child and waited
for Randall to relent. Randall just looked down at him with raised eye brows,
until finally Ishrel snorted and spun away in a huff.
“There is no way to fight the poem,” Ishrel said with his back to Randall.
Randall couldn't tell if Ishrel was just being obstructive or if, as he
suspected no one really knew how to fight a poem. Myth or no myth that
power was real enough, and its presence in the house caused Randall a major
headache. Any creature he sent in there would turn tail and run at just a whiff
of the power of the poem. He couldn't help but smile, impressed. “Clever,
clever priest.” He turned to Ishrel. “Y'know I think I like this guy.”
“Huh! You never were much of a judge of character.” Ishrel said and
actually stamped his foot although it made no sound.
“Must be why I like you so much. Still, I can't believe they would let one
of those things out of the Vatican with only a three man protection team and
a priest. And all for a nobody like McCulloch.”
A conundrum indeed.


THIRTY-SEVEN
In the hours since Randall had left, an uneasy truce had descended on
the occupants of the safe house, thought the mood was still one of grim
uncertainty. Lewis was back at his post on the landing after looking
downstairs from which he had returned to report that yes the living room
window, steel shutters and all, was no more, gone the same way as half the
side of the house. No one knew how the hell the waking street beyond had
not notice the demolition as they made their various way to work of on the
school run. But they had all soon decided that was the least strange thing
that had happen this morning.
257
While Lewis kept is vigil, Peroni and Nichols were discussing their next
move in hushed whispers and Larry McCulloch was pacing the room excitedly.
He felt like he had dropped twenty years in as many minutes and as if to
mirror this change in fortune the sky outside had brightened as the new day,
one he now knew he might actually see the end of, finally took hold and the
night was banished for another day.
“Did you see that bastard’s face?” Larry said for what must have been the
fourth time since Randall's exit and as before to no one in particular. “Not so
smug when he scurried out, was he?”
“We are far from out of the woods yet Larry,” Peroni reminded him and
moved over to the window.
“See anything out there?” Nichols asked and adjusted the towel he had
put back over the box, feeling the shape of it under the material made his
head pound.
“I can see him, he's out in the street, bold as you like, by our car.”
“Well as long as he stays out there, that's fine with me.” Lewis shouted
through.
“Indeed,” Peroni agreed. As she watched Randall seemed to be talking to
himself, or more likely to some creature he had conjured. Try as she might
she could not make out so much as a slight distortion in the air that might
indicate the thing’s location. The collector seemed to be fiddling with
something in his hands, it was difficult at this distance and in the early
morning light. Paper perhaps?
Larry briefly joined her at the window. “We should move,” he said
watching Randall. Even at this range the bastard gave him the creeps. “While
we still can. He's not going to try anything in broad daylight, is he?” He
moved away from the window again as a chill ran down his spine. “Besides,
we've got the big guns now.” He motioned to the box.
“Hate to admit it,” Lewis said. “But Larry's right. He can't do anything in
the middle of the street. We should get gone. Get Larry to the Vatican and
hopefully never see his ugly mug again. No offence Larry.”
“Huh, don't worry about it, the feeling if move than mutual.” McCulloch
replied.
258
Could it be this easy? Nichols wondered, biting his nails. Just a whiff of
the poem’s power and Randall, the great terrible Randall is defeated? No not
defeated as such, just a stale mate. But their one true chance lay in the fact
that Randall and his kind thrived on secrecy. Surely even with all his power
Randall couldn't risk an all-out battle right in the middle of this sleepy
suburbia. He prayed he wouldn't have to open the box again, there was
riding your luck and then there was suicide. He tried to put the thought from
his mind.
“Father?” He turned to see Peroni had come away from the window and
over to where he was standing deep in thought.
“Yes Ania?”
Her gaze was strangely skittish “May I see the poem?” She asked
sheepishly.
“Not a good idea, Ania,” he replied softly. He smiled as reassuringly as
he could. “We don't really know the potential of the poem, no one does.
Even what prolong exposure to its power might do to us, what it may have
already done.”
Lewis poked his head into the room. “If I get cancer, I'm suing the
Vatican.” He said impishly then disappeared once more.
Nichols laughed. “Good luck with that!” He said, but the smile faded as
he turned back to Peroni who frowned up at him, always so serious. He
signed. “Ania, look. That box is lead lined, and that has to be for a reason. I
don't want to risk any of you, getting...” He shrugged unable to finish the
sentence.
“I understand,” Peroni said clearly disappointed. Then after a moment’s
thought said. “I just hate to think of what you happen if one of Randall's kind
got a hold of it.”
He took her hands in his and smiled reassuringly. “Let's hope it never
comes to that.” He squeezed her hands gently and she forced a smile.
“Heck of a night,” she said.
“Heck of a night, Ania,” he replied.
“Strange bastard,” Larry said. He was back over at the window looking
down into the street below.
259
“What is it?” Peroni asked and moved over to the window where she
stood next to Larry and looked out. The car was still there but Randall was
nowhere to be seen. “Where is he?”
Larry ran his hand through his thinning hair. “He just looked up at me,
waved, then walked off.”
“Walked off, where?” She asked.
“Off down the street,” Larry said and slapped her hard on the back. “He's
gone!”
“Peroni looked less than convinced. “Oh, I don't know.”
“Gone,” Larry repeated and nearly danced into the middle of the room.
“He's had enough. He knows there's no way he can't get to me here, thanks
to that box thing.”
Still at the window, Peroni frantically looked for the collector. But the
scene was just one of bland suburban normality. Someone was walking their
dog, two school children were running down the street chasing a football.
Just a normal Monday morning. She kept desperately trying to find some
crack in the illusion, some misplaced dark shadow, a look of malevolence on a
passing pedestrian’s face, but there was nothing. Larry clapped his hands
behind her in delight.
“Can't be over,” she said to herself, but her eyes didn't lie no matter how
hard she tried to disbelieve them.
“We should go,” Nichols stated firmly. “While we can.”
Peroni spun to face him. Can't be this easy she said to herself, but
Nichols eyes had real hope in them. He nodded to her. “Okay,” she said.
“At last, some sense,” Larry remarked. “I'm already packed.”
Ignoring Larry, Peroni checked her watch. Something wasn't right but as
yet she couldn't quite put her finger on it. She peered up into the sky, which
should by her calculations be nearly fully light by now. It wasn't. The street
lights were off, as they had been for a good half an hour now and she could
see the sun, which had come out from behind the thin layer of clouds
stretching across the sky. So by rights the last of the night should have been
chased away by the oncoming day. But it still clung on.
260
Then as she watched, the sky began to darken, slowly at first but growing
darker by the moment. She screwed her eyes shut and rubbed them with the
balls of her hands. She took a beat to compose herself, after all she had been
up all night, scared, on adrenalin overdrive waiting for an attack to come at
any moment. So it wasn't hard to believe her tired eyes could deceive her.
She told herself to remain calm and opened her eyes again. She gasped out
loud.
It was now twilight outside and getting darker. “Wait...” she said halfheartedly, to the approaching darkness or her companions she didn't know.
They ignored her, scurrying around as they were preparing to leave. The
surrounding houses in the street outside were shadows now, by rights, if this
were a natural darkness their lights should be on, as should the street lights.
Darker and darker, this was no normal night, the sun was now nothing
more than a dull brown stain in the sky, until as he watched on horrified it
disappeared altogether, swallowed up with the rest of the outside world.
The light bulb in the room dipped and the room was suddenly pitched
into hear darkness before it slowly faded up again, but it’s light couldn't
penetrate the pitch black outside. So much so that Peroni found that she was
now staring at her reflection in the window.
“What the shit was that?” Larry cursed and dropped is suitcase so the
contents spilled out onto the floor.
“Outside,” Peroni said.
“What the hell's going on out there?” Lewis cried.
Nichols rushed over to the window. “Now what?”
Peroni pointed lamely to the nothingness outside.
The sound of electrical sparking came up from below them, followed by a
loud bang of something exploding.
“Shit, the lights are out down stairs,” Lewis shouted, he looked up as the
bulb above his head in the landing flickered then died. “Shit,”
“Power cut?” Larry asked. Then remembered the bedroom light was still
glowing dimly, now they only source of meagre light.
“It's him,” Nichols said grimly still looking out into the void outside.
261
“It all just went, dark outside,” Peroni told him. “Right in front of my
eyes.”
“What's going on?” Larry wanted to know, he followed their gaze out the
window.
Lewis retreated from the darkness of the landing, gun drawn and lent
against the door frame his eyes wide with terror. “Black as pitch downstairs
now,” he said.
“Darker,” Nichols said. It was as if someone had thrown a thick blanket
over the whole house. “That's no natural darkness.” He added.
A loud crash from downstairs drew them all over to the door. Lewis held
out an arm to stop them getting past. “Wait, no point in crowding me, can't
see anything beyond the top of the stairs out here. Stay in the room.”
He aimed into the nothingness beyond the weak light coming from the
bedroom’s solitary light, which barely reached the top of the stairs.
Peroni cocked an ear to listen as more crashing came from downstairs.
“Shh, everyone, that's coming from the kitchen. The sound of smashing glass
and splintering wood thundered up though the floorboards under their very
feet. Directly below them, the kitchen was being taken apart.
“Nichols!” Larry grabbed the priest by the sleeve and pulled him away
from the door. “What are you waiting for? Use that thing, all hell’s breaking
loose down there!”
“No,” Nichols pulled his arm away from Larry desperate grasp.
“They're down stairs,” Larry pleaded. “They could come up here at any
second. You saw how Randall reacted when you just opened that thing.” He
made to grab Nichols again but he stepped back, shaking his head vigorously.
“No,” the word came out of Nichols throat as a shrill cry. “Get away from
me!” He demanded.
Seeing Nichols panic, Peroni took a step towards him, but he staggered
away with his head in his hands. “No, No, No!” he screamed.
She dragged herself away from the scene and moved past Lewis and
onto the landing to the very edge of the light.
“Careful Ania,” Lewis warned.
262
“Cover me,” she said approaching the darkness.
“Cover you? Lewis exclaimed. “There could be a fucking huge monster
an inch in front of your face and I wouldn’t see it!”
She peered into the void. Good point.
Back in the room, Larry spat a curse at Nichols and took a step towards
the box on the table. “Fucking coward!”
He made to grab the box.
“Don't you touch that!” Nichols warned through gritted teeth, his voice
was almost a growl now. And he pointed an accusing finger at Larry.
“Fuck you,” Larry pulled away the towel to reveal the gaudy looking lifeline. He moved to pick it up but Nichols flew at him and before McCulloch
could react the priest shoulder barged him away from the table with the
strength of a mad man. The blow caught McCulloch sharply in the ribs and
sent him sprawling to the floor.
“Larry...” Nichols looked down at McCulloch, his face set in shock at what
he had just done.
“Fucker,” Larry snapped and rolled on his back to gawked up at him in
stunned outrage. “You bastard!” He screamed and tried to get up but the
priest was looming over him like a lunatic, and for one horrible moment, Larry
thought he was going to kick him square in the face out of blind rage, and he
had a look that said if he started kicking he would not be able to stop himself
until he had stomped Larry brains into mush.
He desperately looked for support from Peroni or Lewis but the Italian
was nowhere to be seen and Lewis had is back to them aiming at something
out side. “Shit,” Larry brought his arms up over his head to protect himself
from the anticipated onslaught and closed his eyes.
Seeing Larry cowering below him, the rage that was threatening to
overwhelm him fled from Nichols in an instant and with it went every ounce
of energy he had left. “Oh, dear God, Larry I'm sorry...” He moved to help
Larry up but McCulloch flinched.
“Father!” Peroni came back into the room to see Nichols standing over
the prone McCulloch. Both Nichols and Larry stared at her in disbelief, she
was about to ask why when she realized she was aiming her pistol at Nichols.
263
She looked down at the gun in her hand as if it were being held by someone
else, then holstered the weapon.
“Jez,” Lewis was next to her now with a look like a school teacher who
had stumbled in on a fight between his best three pupils. “Don't we have
enough problems?”
“Jesus!” Larry screamed and kicked out at Nichols finally regaining his
senses. “You fucking hypocrite,” He shuffled on his back over to the wall and
clambered up it until he was back on his feet, he had to lean against it to stop
himself from falling back down in a heap. Nichols instinctively moved to help
him. “Don't you fucking touch me,” Larry spat.
“Larry...”
“Jesus,” Larry winced in pain as he straightened his back and cursed to
himself. Nearly getting the shit kicked out of him by a priest. Now that was a
new low, even for him. “Just leave me alone,” he warned and half walked half
stumbled over to his bed and sat down.
Nichols desperately wanted to say something, some words of apology,
not only to Larry but to Peroni and Lewis, anything just to get their eyes off
him. The crushing disappointment in them was worse than any bile that came
from McCulloch's mouth. But what could he say? He was spiralling out of
control again and just couldn't stop himself. Finally he sank down into a chair
by the table and held his head in his hands.
A scurrying sound, not unlike half a dozen rats, albeit ones the size of
cats drew Peroni and Lewis away from the pitiful scene in front of them and
back onto the landing. Peroni was almost glad of the distraction and one
quite awkward glance to Lewis confirmed he felt the same.
“Now what?” Lewis said.
She shrugged and drew her pistol making a mental note not to aim it at
any priests again. “God only knows,” she replied.
They slowly approached the void which was as black and endless as
before. But now it was radiating a bitter cold that instantly misted their
breath. The temperature close by was dropping noticeably by the second.
They both stopped three feet away as new twist assaulted their senses. Along
with the sub-zero temperature came a smell not unlike a rancid meat locker.
264
“That's new,” Lewis said. “Smells like...” He searched for the right word in
the cold. Peroni found it.
“Death.”
“Yeah,” Lewis shivered and made a face. “Can almost taste it.”
It was as if the darkness itself was rotting and sucking the heat out of
their very marrow.
The scurrying was suddenly louder now, an incessant scratching and
scraping that set Peroni's chattering teeth on edge. It was close, perhaps
right in front of their raised pistols ready to leap out of the blackness and into
their faces. She shuddered, not wanting to think too hard about what
something created by Randall and called this nothingness home might look
like and what it was capable of. She offered a prayer that whatever it was
would stay there. It wasn't the most hopeful prayer she had uttered today.
“Maybe, they're not real,” Lewis whispered. His voice sounded tinny in
the dead atmosphere of the landing, but still it gave her a spark of optimism.
“Like the thing on the stairs,” Peroni said and he nodded clearly glad of
the validation. The image of that seething nightmare flashed into her mind’s
eye unbidden and she quickly shook it away before it got too tight a grip on
her already shaky psyche.
“Christ!” It was an almost shriek from the room behind them. They
dashed through just in time to hear something huge, and thankfully unseen
clamber its way across the outside of the house and over to the window,
which rattled violently as it passed.
“What the fuck is that?” Larry said.
The thing scuttled along the whole side of the house and then back
again over to the window. As a shadow somehow darker than the void
passed the window, Peroni took up a shooting stance and aimed at the glass.
The thing was gone in a second and she was left aiming at her own reflection
in the window. She could hear it stomping its way down the side of the wall.
Then double back up towards the window once more.
“It's going to come through,” Lewis shouted and brushed past Peroni and
aimed at the window. He cocked his pistol preparing to fire as the thing got
close.
265
“Don't fire!” Peroni warned him, once again her mind went back to the
creature on the stairs and how their bullets passed through its body. “That's
what he wants. It won't come through.”
“God I hope your right,” Lewis said clearly unsure.
Larry darted over to where Nichols was still sat in the chair by the table.
“Use that thing!” He pointed to the box.
Nichols had his head in his hands he shook it vigorously. He could hear
the thing as it moved around outside. Finally it stopped. Waiting.
“Father,” Lewis moved over to him and rested his hand on the priest’s
shoulder and held it there until Nichols looked up at him with blood shot
eyes. “Larry's right,” Lewis said.
“No,” Nichols insisted.
Larry made to speak, but Peroni held a hand up to stop him. “Larry,
please.” She turned to Nichols, he was crying. “Father?”
He tried to answer her but the words came out as sobs, he swallowed
hard in an attempt to compose himself but it was too late to stop the flow of
tears, they just kept coming, until finally they over took him completely and
before he knew it he was sobbing uncontrollably.
This must have been music to the massed creatures down stairs and
outside as they drummed their terrible feet in unison. The noise shredding
every live nerve in the room.


THIRTY-EIGHT
The collector and the demon sat together on the garden gate once more,
their legs dangling off the ground as they enjoyed the devilish tattoo coming
from the various creatures scaling the outside of the house. They smiled at
the noise, music as it was to them and exchanged a knowing look as the
anguish radiating from inside swirled around them like a sweet aroma. The
cacophony sounding all the sweeter accompanied as it was by the pitiful sobs
of the priest.
266
It was an almost intimate moment between friends.
Bliss.
“How long can you keep this up?” Ishrel asked kicking his feet absently.
After the ignominy of his exit from the house, Randall felt good about
how the power had once again shifted back in his favour. “I don't know to be
honest,” he confessed. “Maybe a day or two. But the important thing is they
don't know how long I can keep it going. As far as they're concerned, I could
keep it going for weeks.”
The truth was, creating a void like this was simple enough. To the
outside world the house appeared normal enough. Any of the people
casually passing by this morning would only see the normal house they saw
every day of the week. No massive hole in the wall where the window used to
be, no dead bodyguard sprawled by the door. In fact no more than half an
hour previously a postman had delivered a pile of junk mail to the house,
blissfully ignorant of the siege taking place all around him, he hadn't batted
an eye lid as he passed Randall and Ishrel or any of the creatures crawling all
over the side of the house. The postman had even stepped right over
Jeffery's body to reach the letterbox. Perhaps he thought it was just an
unusually high door step.
Randall wasn't a hundred per cent sure how the freezing void incantation
worked but whatever it did to the minds of any human in the vicinity, it was
working a treat. And that in the end was all he needed to know, after all you
don't need to know the intricate workings of the internal combustion engine
to drive a car.
“Now I'm all for the suffering of others,” Ishrel said after listening with
great amusement to the latest ear splitting screech coming from one of the
smaller creatures. “But what good is all this doing us?”
“Use your head old man. If they go without food, water and sleep for
long enough, they won't be in any fit state to put up much of a fight if I do
decide to attack the place full on. And hey, you never know, they may end up
going so crazy that they kick Larry out of the front door themselves. It's been
known to happen.”
267
“True,” Ishrel agreed. “But I'm concerned about the woman, she seems a
bright one. She may figure out what you are doing. Perhaps persuade the
priest to use the poem.”
“The priest won't use the poem.”
“How can you be so sure?”
“He looked as terrified as I felt in there when he opened the box. He
doesn't know what will happen if he recites the verse. No one does, it could
take them all, and half the street with us.”
The demon nodded as he idly watched a young mother pushing a baby
in a pram down the street passed them. She was oblivious to the horrors
around her but the baby, which had been happily crewing on its grubby
fingers, suddenly burst into tears as the passed where Ishrel and Randall were
sitting. The demon cocked a grin at this as the flustered mother tried in vain
to comfort the distressed child.
“Smart kid,” Randall said, as the mother hurried away down the street
with the still wailing infant.
“Hmm,” Ishrel mused. “I wonder how it tastes.”
How long had it been? Peroni wondered to herself as she sat on the
floor of the isolated bedroom. She was by the door with a thin bed sheet
wrapped around herself in a pathetic attempt to keep warm. How long had
they been trapped in this sub-zero nightmare. Hours? Days even, since that
unnatural heat stealing darkness had entombed the house. It was impossible
to tell with no point of reference. The power in each of their mobile phones
had gone the same way as the power to the house. All save Father Nichols’,
which was still working but the clock had remained at 00:00 ever since. And
the solitary light bulb still burning above them.
Her empty stomach told her it had at least been many hours since her
last meal, and no hope of foraging for food down stairs, stumbling through
the darkness would be suicide.
Then there was the cold. It seemed impossible given how cold it was
now, but the temperature still continued to drop with each passing misted
breath she breathed. It was so cold now that a thin layer of frost covered
268
everything in the room formed from the frozen moisture in their breath the
moment it escaped their lips.
Across the room, Larry was laid on the bed curled up in the meagre
luxury of his duvet, muttering something inaudible to himself, probably more
obscenities no doubt. He had obscenities and sins to burn that one. Or was
he even now, with all hope of escape slipping away, plotting his next great
escape, at our expense, Peroni thought bitterly. Writing another chapter in
his life story, unable to accept it would be the last, before the inevitable
epilogue where he died, trapped in a frozen room with three fools who tried
and failed to save him.
Lewis was on his feet again now, pacing the room trying to stay warm.
His face which had never been fleshy was gaunt and pale, she could see the
sinuses in his hollow cheeks tighten as he clenched and unclenched his jaw.
She couldn't think where he got the energy to keep moving like that, she had
long since used up any reserves she had herself and even watching him as he
began to stamp his feet and rub his arms made her head spin. She felt so
detached from her body she feared she may just fade away altogether.
Then there was Father Nichols, he was sitting on the chair by the table
with a bath towel draped over his shoulders, Lewis had practically had to
force him to take it to at least try and keep warm.
The priest was just staring blankly at the blackness outside the window.
The precious and as yet unused box was on his lap where he gripped it so
tightly the whites of his knuckles showed. He had barely moved in the past
few hours, (or days for all she knew) Except to check his mobile phone,
perhaps in the hope the Vatican cavalry would call and bring this misery to an
end.
She knew that chance was thin at best. They were lost, but then again
maybe they always had been. This whole thing had a grim inevitability about
it. The only real surprise was the manner of their defeat. Hordes of demons
coming crashing through the wall, she could accept that. Going out all guns
blazing as they were overwhelmed. But this? Starving to death, if they didn't
freeze first?
Such an ordinary way to die.
269
Peroni took in the room and shivered, it wouldn't have looked out of
place in some far off Arctic research station instead of here in the middle of
suburban England. She pulled the bed sheet tighter around herself and
pulled her knees up under her chin. Being from southern Italy, Peroni had
always thought the weather was bad in this country, especially at winter time,
but this was ridiculous. This made her smile which in turn made her chapped
lips crack and she tasted blood. She would have cried if she had the energy.
Then Lewis spun on his heels to face her. “Wish we had some music,” he
said obliquely.
“Come again?” Peroni said.
“Music, y'know, so we could dance to keep warm.”
She looked at him as if he were speaking Martian.
“Christ!” Larry muttered in disbelief and rolled over and pulled the duvet
over his head.
“I didn't know you could dance,” Peroni said and Lewis gave her a look of
bemusement.
“You never asked.”
It was only now that Peroni realised she knew next to nothing about
Lewis outside of work. He and Jeff used to talk all the time, about this and
that, always shooting the breeze. But she had felt the need to keep an
emotional distance between herself and the others. It seemed so stupid now,
such a waste of time now that time was drawing to an end for all of them.
She was about to ask Lewis what type of music he liked to dance to, when
Father Nichols spoke.
“This is all my fault,” he said still facing the window. “I should have
known...” He got to his feet, suddenly animated, clutching the box to his
chest like a child. The bath towel fell to the floor but he scarcely seemed to
notice. He looked from person to person wild wide, wild eyes tainted with a
hint of madness in them.
“I told them,” he continued. “I told the Vatican what to expect, what
Randall was capable of if he found us before we got to the holy city. But
would those pompous bastards listen?” He laughed bitterly, the spark of
madness in his eyes igniting now into full blown lunacy. “Pompous Bastards!”
270
He shouted to the heavens as if trying to make God Himself hear him. “If I
ever get out of here, I’ll tell them to their faces! Then I'm done with them!”
Larry sat up in bed. “Well it's a bit fucking late for that now, holy man.
Save all that crisis of faith bollocks for someone who gives a shit.”
“My faith is still intact,” Nichols told him. “Just not in the Vatican, that's
all.”
“Whatever, you fuckin' lunatic.” Larry threw a dismissive hand at the
priest.
“I've as good as killed us all,” Nichols added.
“Not yet you haven't,” Larry replied with contempt.
They both suddenly looked to Peroni like two drunken derelicts shouting
at each other in the street. She got to her feet and the action made her head
spin. She leaned back against the wall for support and waited for the room to
come back into focus. Nichols was clutching the box so tightly she half
expected it to shatter.
“Father, you saved us,” she said, her voice sounded miles away. “Randall
could have killed us all, but now he knows you have the poem, he can't send
anything in against us.” It was valid argument up to a point she knew, just so
long as you didn't mention the whole freezing and starving to death
development.
“I haven't saved anyone yet,” Nichols said and looked down at the box.
“Not yet.” He whispered.
“All this must be taking its toll on Randall,” Lewis said as he picked up the
bath towel and put it back on Nichol's hunched shoulders. “I'm sure he can't
keep this up forever.”
“True,” Peroni said nodding, she gave Lewis a smile of thanks and he
winked.
It was Larry's turn to jump up now, he leapt out of bed. “He doesn't
fuckin' need to keep it up for ever, just until we are fucking dead!” His ragged
breath clouded the air around him. “Now I'm not waiting around here to
starve to death just on the off chance that bastard is going to get tired. Jesus,
I'd rather take my changes outside in that black shit.”
271
“Larry, come on, you wouldn't last five seconds,” Peroni told him.
“Yeah? Well why don't you give me your gun and we'll soon find out,
won't we?” He said.
“That's not an option Larry,” she replied. “That would be just like handing
you over to Randall.”
“Now that,” Lewis said with a sneer, “sounds like a plan.”
“Fuck you,” Larry shouted.
“Oh, yeah?” Lewis took a step towards Larry.
“Lewis, back off,” Peroni ordered but Lewis stood firm eye balling Larry,
who also wasn't backing down.
“Maybe he would then just let us go,” Lewis taunted. “After all it's you he
wants.”
Watching the confrontation, Nichols backed off slightly. Things were
coming to a head, and the realisation shook some sense back in to his
fatigued brain. Lewis looked genuinely ready to throw Larry out of the
window, and Nichols just couldn't blame him. Even with the best of
intentions, Larry McCulloch was a nasty piece of work.
He could see that now as the crook began shouting and swearing at
Lewis a man he barely knew but one who had agreed to lay down his life for
McCulloch even though he obviously hated the man. But Larry just didn't
care about anything or anyone except how he could use them for his own
selfish ends.
Nichols’ heart sank at the scene, at Larry. He had always believed
everyone, no matter what their past deeds, deserved a chance at salvation.
That was why they were all here, and now it just seemed so dangerously
naïve. He watched with growing despair as Larry leaned into Lewis face
provocatively.
“Yeah,” Larry sneered. “You'd do that too wouldn't you? Throw me to
the fucking wolves at the first sign of trouble, just to save your own fucking
skin.”
Peroni shook her head exasperated. “Larry...”
272
“First sign of trouble?” Lewis said incredulously. Then he took a breath
and added in a more measured almost condescending tone. “Larry, Larry,
Larry. You are just not fucking worth it.” With this he turned his back on
McCulloch, which just infuriated him more.
“Yeah, that's right. Just walk away.” Larry said.
“I wish I could!” Lewis replied.
“Well, well, well,” Larry continued. “The truth will fucking out.”
“Larry...” Peroni started to speak but Larry cut her off with a dismissive
wave of the hand.
“I knew I'd be better off on my own,” Larry said and gave them all a look
of disdain, then he spat on the floor. “Fucking amateurs.”
“What did you say?” Lewis spun back around, the look of fury on his face
made Nichols wince. “I should fucking shot you where you stand.”
“Huh, you'd probably fucking miss,” came the reply.
Nichols was about to intervene when his mobile suddenly went off. He
had set it to ring out loud but all the same it just vibrated. He moved away
from the confrontation just as Peroni moved forwards. She pointed at Lewis
but he ignored her and squared off against Larry once more.
“You are one ungrateful bastard,” he said taking a step forwards, but
Larry stood his ground. Lewis was about to continue but Peroni moved
between them both.
“That's enough,” she said sternly and pushed the men apart like the
referee at a boxing match. She looked so frail to Nichols compared to the
two men but still she stood firm between them with a no nonsense look on
her face.
Nichols admired her so much, he always had but even more so now
things were so grim. She was half dead on her feet but she was still standing
strong. His shoulders slumped. She deserved so much better than this. So
did Lewis and poor Jeff. He put the box back down on the table and pulled
the mobile out of his pocket as Peroni spoke again.
“Look at us,” she said. “If this is what we are like after a few hours. What
are we going to be like after a few days, if it comes to that?”
273
That was a very good point, Nichols noted.
She pushed them away from each other. Nichols could tell that even that
small exertion sapped what little strength she had left.
“Sorry boss,” Lewis said suddenly ashamed. And she nodded weakly.
And Nichols could have sworn he saw Larry eyeing the pistol in her holster.
He open his phone to read the text he had just received. It could of
course only have come from one person. He read the text, it was from the
collector. He punched in a reply but could not bring himself to send it, not
yet. Not ever if he could help it, so Nichols just saved the text with a heavy
heart and prayed he would never have to press send.

THIRTY-NINE
It was generally understood amongst Randall's kind that all but a few of
the stuffy, pious, overfed, overdressed population of the Vatican hierarchy
believed (if they knew of them at all) that the collectors were nothing more
than a left over myth from the good old days of witch trials and inquisitions.
Their numerous and largely unread records from that dark period in the
church’s turbulent history showed that an unfortunate individual could just as
easily be accused of being a collector of souls as of being branded a witch. At
the time they were considered to be one and the same evil, just a different
label on which to pin unmentionable horrors to.
As the years past and civilisation and reason took a grip of the righteous,
the activities of the collectors grew more and more clandestine, until finally it
was assumed by the soldiers of darkness and their own hierarchy that none
but the most vigilant of believers even knew of their continued existence.
And that even today they still walked the earth causing chaos. That was evil’s
greatest weapon in the war, the ability to carry on its work unmolested by the
church.
They were predators in a world with no equal, natural (or unnatural) foes.
Free to do as they wished without fear of interruption. The truth of them lost
274
somewhere in the dusty Vatican archives, lost along with the means to fight
them.
Mynor and his poem (or at least the poem’s potential power) fell into this
lost category along with the collectors and their like. Myth, nothing more
than rumour to any but the staunchest believer. So why had the priest been
allowed to take such a valuable artefact out of the Vatican's secret Museum?
Even if taken just at face value, the relic was a priceless piece of the church’s
history. Most there believed it was the ravings of a religious madman from an
age where man believed that evil walked the earth.
If no one at the Vatican truly believed that the darkness was a real and
present threat. Why had they let it out of their vaults, to be taken to a
nondescript place like this, with minimal protection. For the sake of a low life
criminal like Larry McCulloch?
It was a brain teaser alright, and more importantly to Randall it was a
welcome kick in the pants. For far too long now he had gone about his work
unchallenged and it had made him bored, which in turn have made him
sloppy.
Coming here, he had expected, like always just to waltz in and take
McCulloch and if needs be kill anyone foolish enough to get in his way. But
not this time, Randall had felt something standing in that room he had not
felt since that fateful New York night when his old life had so abruptly ended
and this new one had begun. Fear.
It was his first real strong emotion since coming back. Everything else
had been a breeze, too easy. Thinking about it now, he had almost
sleepwalked through the last twenty years since the novelty of his new
existence had worn off. They called it 'the game' and that was how it had felt.
But not any longer, now in the presence of such power it felt like life and
death. This was a new dawn and he couldn't wait to see the day that
followed. It would be a shame to rid the world of this new found threat, but
Ishrel was insisting they had to get their hands on the poem and thus tip the
scales back in their favour.
Usually Randall would have expected Ishrel to go running off to his
superiors with the news, then things would escalate and Randall would be
pushed to the side lines. But Ishrel hadn't left his side, he was a coward but
275
he was also ambitious, and Randall suspected he wanted all the glory for
himself. And thus the little demon wanted Mynor’s Poem more than
anything, even more than Larry McCulloch's tainted soul.
And there in lay the dilemma, he couldn't storm in all demons blazing,
the priest was scared of the poem’s untapped power but he would unleash
that power if handed no other options. So what to do? This solution to
soften them up with the freezing void and its noisy inhabitants was a good
enough start, but what if it pushed the priest over the edge?
“Ishrel, what if the priest destroys the poem?”
Ishrel, who had been laid on his back in the over grown garden leapt to
his feet. “No!” He glided through the knee high grass to where Randall was
leant against the gate. “He wouldn't... He, he couldn't! It’s their only chance
of survival.”
“I just can't see him giving it up. We've pretty much got Larry, that's a
given. But I think he'll burn the poem before letting us get our hands on it.”
“No, no, no!” Ishrel protested, he approached Randall and even though
he was a good two feet shorter than the collector, he did his best to square
up to him. “That is not acceptable,” he warned, stabbing a scaly finger at
Randall. “We must get that box. Don't you realise how important it is?”
To your career, Randall thought and looked down at the diminutive
demon with mild amusement. “Ishrel, relax.”
“No I will not relax! We have never been this close to actually getting our
hands on one. Not for a hundred years!” Ishrel made a small fist and shook it
comically up at Randall.
“I say let the priest burn it, if he wants to,” Randall said more to vex Ishrel
further than anything else. “One less of those things floating around can't be
anything other than a good thing, if you ask me. What will that leave if this
one’s destroyed? How many copies was Mynor supposed to have made?
Two, maybe three? I say burn away preacher boy, burn away.”
Ishrel pulled at his leathery face in disbelief, raking his brittle nails over
the scaly skin and then stamped his feet like a child on the verge of a major
tantrum. He made to speak again but was so mad that he couldn't get a
coherent word out.
276
“Relax,” Randall said before the demon’s head exploded. The truth was
he knew how important the poem could be. Only one of those things could
allegedly take out a collector, so was best in their hands than the enemy’s.
And Randall was sure that if they did get a hold of one intact, that Ishrel or
one of his kind could then set about deciphering its power, perhaps come up
with a counter incantation as a defence against its formidable potential. After
all, as far as most players in the game, on both sides, knew. A Mynor's poem
was the only sure fire way of killing a collector. So even if taken only as a selfpreservation exercise. He had to get his hands on that dusty scrap of paper.
So Randall had sent the priest a text with the offer of a get out clause for
him and his team (McCulloch was fucked, that was a given). One which, so far
Nichols had refused in no uncertain terms. What he needed was a little more
motivation.
“Randall! Time is wasting,” Ishrel said and the collector drew his
attention back to the demon. First things first, he had been nice to the
creature for too long, Ishrel might think he was getting soft on him. So
Randall decided that he could keep his current form, it just needed a little
modification.
“Nice tutu, Ishrel.”
The demon looked down at the bright pink fluffy tutu he was now
wearing around his waist. “Really collector, really? I thought we were past
such immaturity.”
Randall cocked a grin. “Never, besides it suits you.”
He dug into his jacket pocket and brought out a piece of paper he had
already torn into a three inch square and also a small Swiss army pocket knife.
He selected the sharpest blade and cut into the palm of his left hand and
once the blood came he spat into it, then using the tip of the blade as a pen,
he mixed the fluids together and drew a crude picture of a spindly old woman
onto the paper square. The design was little more than a glorified stick figure
with wild hair, but it was more than detailed enough for what he needed.
Ishrel peered around him to see the picture. He grunted will approval.
A Banshee charm. That should liven things up in there no end.

277

FORTY
Not like this. Larry McCulloch silently vowed to himself as he shivered in
his next to useless duvet, which he had wrapped around himself in a very vain
attempt to ward of the now sub-zero temperature of the room.
No. He would not go out so, so pathetically. That idiot priest had
supposedly survived an encounter with one of Randall's kind, and a woman at
that if Nichols was to be believed. So surely, he, Lucky Larry McCulloch could
come through this rapidly deteriorating situation.
He eyed Nichols with contempt. The priest was huddled in a corner sat
whispering with Peroni and clutching that box of his like a lover. What were
they plotting? After more whispered words, Peroni crawled on her hands and
knees across the room. None of them had the energy or desire anymore to
do much else, and over to Lewis, who was slumped on his arse in the
doorway, still clinging to the pretence he was somehow standing guard.
If only Randall knew the state they were all in he would just waltz in and
take Larry without so much of a whimper in response. The Italian shuffled up
close to Lewis and the exchanged words in hushed tones, Larry strained to
here but couldn't make out a thing. Plotting, those bastards were plotting
something. Christ if only he had a gun.
His attention was drawn back to Nichols who was checking his mobile
phone again, which he had been doing on and off for hours now. The old
crook’s eyes narrowed suspiciously. Was Randall sending him clandestine
messages? Little texts of seduction offering him life and liberty in return for
giving up Larry?
The priest seemed to be struggling with indecision. He put Larry in mind
of an alcoholic desperately fighting the urge to take that first sip from a
freshly opened bottle of cheap whiskey which would send him spiralling back
into drunken oblivion.
Finally Nichols tucked the phone back into his pocket, mumbling
something to himself as he did so. A prayer perhaps, the brainless zealot. But
a prayer for what, Larry wondered? Guidance, or forgiveness for what he was
about to do?
278
Nichols glanced furtively around the frozen meat locker of a room until
he caught Larry's gaze. The priest started in shock as if he feared Larry was
reading his mind, then he tore his gaze away, the look on his face something
akin to shame, or was it guilt?
What are you up to Holy man? That look seemed to confirm all of Larry's
suspicions. It was all so crystal clear to him now. If he had any chance of
survival he would have to take control of this shitty situation, and fast. Shaft
them before they could do the same to him. He knew now that for all of
Nichols words of assurance, now that the shit had hit the fan he would sell
Larry out half as fast as Larry would do the same to him if the roles were
reversed.
So be it. What was called for now was a touch of the old McCulloch
magic. And he would gladly put that up against anything these saps or that
fucking yank outside could conjure up any day.
It was a bold statement that, little did Larry know, would soon be tested.


FORTY-ONE
Shrouded in the foul smelling vapour if its birth, Randall looked down at
his latest creation, which was laid, curled up in the foetal position, half hidden
amongst the foot high straw like dead grass in the house’s jungle of a front
garden. He staggered slightly from the excursion of the creature’s protracted
birth.
The energy it had taken out of him, coupled with the constant drain from
sustaining the freezing void, (once the process had begun, Randall
immediately did away with the creatures wailing and clattering within it, both
to conserve energy and to give those trapped inside a faint glimmer of hope)
was now threatening to overwhelm the collector. Time was short.
The Banshee had taken longer than Randall had anticipated to reach
something close to maturity, a full two hours of concentration. And even now
the creature was only partially complete, but it would have to do.
279
Randall stumbled again, suddenly light headed and he took a faltering
step or two back until he rested against the bramble infested hedge. Ishrel
was standing nearby, transfixed by the old hag as it lay like a dead dog
amongst the weeds.
“Beautiful,” he hissed.
Randall nodded in agreement, the proud father. She was not perfect by
any means, but still, given the circumstances, some of his best work. “Rise,”
he ordered leaning back into the hedge like a drunkard.
The Banshee slowly unknotted itself from its foetal position and with
great effort stood up in all its glory. As it straightened, it’s newly formed
brittle joints popped and cracked in protest, and even Randall couldn't help
but wince at the noise, but the thing itself left no pain. Its rasping breath
clouded the air as it hissed through its rotted teeth.
For a new-born, the Banshee looked ancient. Its leathery skin stretched
too tight and too thinly over bone and sinew. Its long jet black matted hair
steamed in the darkness, its eyes, set deep within its death mask of a face,
flashed with raw lunacy. They darted fitfully around its unfamiliar
surroundings until they finally came to rest upon its creator.
Randall met her desolate gaze as best he could. Though she wanted
nothing more than to serve him, Randall saw nothing but raw madness in
those black eyes. They were so cold that it chilled even the jaded collector to
look into them.
It was such a shame that she didn't have more time in her to torment
those in the house. Randall could hardly imagine the terror she could induce
in those zealots in there given more time. Ishrel had called her beautiful and
she was, in her way. The perfect nightmare standing there unashamedly
naked and impossibly thin (there wasn't one of her limbs thicker than five
inches in diameter). She stood there panting; taking in great lungful’s of air
to prepare herself for what was required of her. She knew her terrible life
would be short, and was glad to give every second of it in service of her
creator.
“Go,” Randall glanced up at the house and to the solitary light source
shinning from the upstairs bedroom window. The creature knew instinctively
what it was to do and without a moment’s hesitation turned and half ran, half
280
staggered over to the house. Once at the wall, she leaped six feet up and
clung onto the brickwork by her fingernails and then began to scuttle up the
side of the house and towards the room above her.
What the hell just happened? One minute Peroni was catching up on
some much needed sleep. Courtesy of the continued silence from the unseen
creatures outside. She had curled up next to the bed, which Larry still
steadfastly refused to vacate, and sleep had soon claimed her.
She had no idea how long she had been out, but had just now been
rudely awakened by what had felt like a kick in the backside. The next thing
she was aware of was sitting up and staring straight down the barrel of a
pistol. It had taken her a few moments to shake off sleep and tell herself she
wasn't still dreaming, then she was able to focus on the figure on the other
end of the weapon aiming at her.
“Larry! What the hell are you doing?” She instinctively reached across
her chest to her shoulder holster which was empty.
“Stay sat down,” Larry ordered and she saw her own pistol tucked in his
belt. It took a second to register, then it hit her like a slap in the face. Larry
had both their guns! He was standing over her ready to shoot if she looked
at him wrong. She turned to see Lewis, his face like thunder, standing close
by with his back against the wall and his hands in the air. Nichols was sitting
at the table clutching the box, watching the scene, his eyes wide with fear, but
at least everyone looked unhurt for now.
“Don't you hurt her,” Lewis warned.
“Shut it, dick head,” Larry responded meanly, keeping his aim on Peroni
to make sure she did as she was told. Ania held her hands out in submission.
“Smart girl,” he said and swung the pistol between her and Lewis.
“Larry, you stupid bastard...” Lewis began but didn't get time to finish as
Larry took a step towards him and slapped him hard across the face with the
back of his free hand. Lewis' face reddened in fury and he looked ready to
lunge at McCulloch, but the old crook took a swift step back again and aimed
the pistol at Lewis forehead.
281
“Steady now, sparky,” Larry warned. “I will shoot you just for the fucking
fun of it.”
“Cock sucker,” Lewis spat.
“You wish,” Larry sneered, and drew Peroni's pistol from his belt. He kept
one aimed at Lewis and swung the other in Nichols direction and the priest
flinched. “Right,” Larry continued firmly. “Nichols, give me your phone.”
“Larry, for pity's sake stop this,” Nichols implored. “Are you losing you
mind?”
“You think I don't see what's been going on here?” Larry said shifting
from one foot to the other over and over. “I've heard you all whispering.
Yeah, that's right. I know you're been plotting against me.” He had an almost
manic look in his eye now.
Peroni stiffly moved to get up, but Larry aimed from Nichols back at her
forehead. She winced bringing up her arms to protect herself, for what little
good it would do against a bullet if it came. “We're on your side!” She said
desperately and waited for the shot that thankfully didn't come.
“Bullshit!” Larry shouted and then took a breath to ensure his twin aims
were good. “Right, this is how things are going to work.” He felt on top of
the world now that his destiny and the means of his salvation were finally in
his own two hands. “Nichols, you are going to give me that box.”
The priest just looked at him with weary resignation and perhaps a slight
shake of the head.
“You all saw the way Randall reacted to that thing. And I'm willing to bet
he wants it more than he wants me,” he continued. “So I say, let him have it.
If he lets me walk that is.”
“And what about us?” Lewis asked.
“You think I give a shit? You live, you die, it's all the same to me.” Larry
replied and turned his attention, if not his aim, back to Nichols. “So, do I start
shooting or are you gonna give me your phone and the box?” He took a step
towards where Nichols was sitting and re-aimed at the priest with his left
hand gun, all the while keeping the right swinging between Peroni, who was
now on her knees and Lewis. It wasn't ideal but no one in their right mind
282
would try and jump a man with two guns. “Well?” He said to Nichols and
was surprised when a look of relief crossed the priest’s face.
“You are a smart fellow, Larry...” Nichols sounded like he was fighting
back tears as he spoke. Perhaps everything had finally caught up with him,
Larry thought and half expected him to break down mid-sentence. But
Nichols struggled on. “Always one step ahead, always ready to make a deal
with the Devil...” He faltered and tears finally sprang to his eyes, his bottom
lip trembled like a child's. “Always looking out for number one... No matter
who gets hurt.”
“You had better believe it, padre. You may want to die for some shitty
piece of paper in a tacky old box, but I sure as shit don't.” Taking another
step, Larry rested the barrel of the pistol on Nichols' forehead and gave
serious consideration to shooting him anyway. “We give him the box, he lets
me go” he said slowly and deliberately. “That's the deal.”
Nichols sighed deeply as the tears ran down his face, but he had pity in
his eyes, not hate, certainly not fear which unnerved the old crook. “Thank
you Larry,” Nichols choked and had to clear his throat before continuing. “This
is probably the nicest thing you have ever done for anyone in your life. Even
if you didn't mean it as such.”
McCulloch frowned, hardly the response he was expecting. The tears,
yes, but thanks? “You really are a fruit cake, Nichols. Y'know that?”
“Perhaps,” Nichols replied with a slight shrug of the shoulders. He wiped
his tear stained cheeks with his hands. “But my conscience is clear... Now”
“Give me the box,” Larry said trying to remain calm.
“No,” Nichols replied softly, his eyes downcast.
There is nothing worse, Larry knew from all his years as a villain, than for
someone you are trying to intimidate to either; one, think you are bluffing. Or
two, simply didn't care if you carry out a threat or not, as they have no regard
for their own life. The priest it seemed fitted firmly in the latter, which was a
problem. But it was one he had the perfect answer to.
If he didn't care about his own life...
Larry turned his head slowly, and without a word shot Lewis in the
stomach. Lewis shuddered slightly and just stood there for a moment with a
283
stupid look on his face, part shock, part outrage. It was the first time Larry
had actually shot anyone before. He had threatened the deed many times
before but had never pulled the trigger, until now. And he couldn't think of a
better man to start with than that sarcastic bastard.
“Oh, no,” Lewis spluttered comically, then as if remembering he had
actually been shot with a real bullet, clutched at the ragged whole in his shirt
and slid down the wall still gawking at Larry.
Christ that was loud, Larry thought as his ears began ringing from the
report of the weapon, he looked at the still smoking pistol, then turned to
Peroni, who had an equally stupefied look of shock on her face. Larry had
expected screams of horror from the Italian, but she just stood there opening
and closing her mouth like a goldfish. Strange, he thought. The priest
however was more vocal.
“Larry!” He shouted. “What have you done?” He struggled to his feet
still cradling the box. “Oh, dear God, Lewis.”
“Oh, Jesus...” Lewis breathed as blood began to trickle through his
fingers.
“Sit down,” Larry ordered and pushed Nichols in the chest with the other
pistol until he fell back to sit on the chair once more.
“Oh, God, God, Lewis,” Nichols went on distraught, his eyes fixed on the
wounded man. “Why, why?”
“For the hell of it,” Larry replied, cruelly.
Suddenly, Peroni seemed to come to her senses and with a wail of
anguish she crawled quickly over to Lewis on her hands and knees. The
wounded man could do little but just look at her dumbly.
“Where are your fucking quips now Lewis, huh?” Larry jeered. The guns
felt good in his hands, like weapons of the Gods, giving him absolute power
over the cowering mortals. But as good as they felt, one in each hand wasn't
practical, so he pushed one back into his waist band and convinced Peroni
and certainly not Lewis weren't an immediate threat, Larry returned his
attention back to Nichols.
The priest was shaking almost uncontrollably his eyes locked on his two
comrades. “No, no.” He said over and over.
284
“Give me the box,” Larry ordered and Nichols tore his gaze away from
Lewis and Peroni to look up at Larry. Then much to Larry's surprise, Nichols
held out his mobile.
“God help you.” Nichols said.
“God helps those who help themselves. Isn't that right, padre?” Larry
snatched the phone from Nichols. Movement from the mobile’s illuminated
screen caught his eye. It was a spinning envelope icon, indicating a text was
being sent. Followed by the words; 'Text sent'. “What have you done?” He
shouted.
Suddenly from behind him, Peroni screamed with rage and Larry just had
time to turn to her when she flung herself at him. Her shoulder caught him
hard in the chest and despite her size knocked the wind right out of him.
Larry gasped and stumbled back a step or two as she rained punch after
punch at him. “Bitch!,” He cursed and brought his elbows up to protect
himself from the onslaught until his back hit the window behind him making
the glass rattle in its frame.
“You bastard, you bastard!” She screamed in his face as she continued
the assault, pummelling him repeated with her fists. One blow connected
hard against the bridge of McCulloch's nose and he felt blood spatter his face
and was blinded by stars for a moment.
That was when he decided to shoot her then and there. “You fucking
bitch!” He pushed her back with all his might and tried to aim the pistol at
her face but she grabbed his hand by the wrist just as he squeezed the
trigger. BOOM! The bullet went high and wide of its target ripping a hole in
the ceiling. The deafening report of the shot made Larry's ears ring, the barrel
was so close he saw Peroni's face light up from the muzzle flash and felt the
heat from it on his own face.
“Jesus!” The shock made him stagger back again, which gave Peroni just
enough time to twist his wrist awkwardly until he felt a sharp pain shoot up
his arm and a sickening snap. “Fuck!” He screamed in pain as she wrenched
the pistol from his hand.
Breathing hard, she aimed at Larry, who spat a mouthful of blood at her
but she didn't so much as flinch. This was it, he could make an attempt to
285
reach for the other pistol in his waist band with his one good hand but he
knew he wouldn't even get close.
“Go on then,” he hissed defiantly through bloody teeth and waited for
the end.
Then Peroni inexplicably let the pistol drop to her side. It took Larry a
moment to take in what she had done, his senses dulled from the duel pain
coming from his broken nose and wrist. Was she really that naïve? If so then
she was easy prey.
Larry was about to reach for the other pistol when he saw the look of
absolute terror on her tear stained face. Her wide eyes were focused, not on
him, but on some horror out of the window directly behind him. And even
though he had no idea what she was seeing, that look on her face made the
hairs on the back of his neck bristle. He so wanted to turn around but
dreaded what he might see.
“Holy Mary, Mother of God,” Nichols uttered. Larry glanced at him to see
he too was transfixed by the nightmare at his back.
'Tap-tap-tap' on the window behind him, followed by nails scraping on
glass. Fuck, Larry screwed his eyes tight shut. His broken nose throbbed in
time to his racing heartbeat.
'Tap-tap-tap, scrape, scrape, scrape.
When Larry opened his eyes again, Peroni was aiming the pistol again.
He tensed only to then realise she was aiming over his left shoulder.
“Fuck it,” Larry drew the pistol with his good left hand and in one
movement stepped away from the window, over to Peroni's side and turned
to aim with her.
His breath caught in his throat and he let out a rasping breath of
disbelief at the horrible wizened creature clinging to the window frame
outside, peering in at them. The emaciated old witch’s face leered in at them,
illuminated by the meagre light. Her rancid breath fogged the window
intermittently with each rasping breath.
Despite everything, Peroni, McCulloch and Nichols stood numbly
transfixed by the vision of wretchedness at the window. Even the sickening
286
sound of Lewis gurgling his life away on the floor behind them couldn't break
the spell.
The Banshee flushed with pride, seeing the look of utter terror on the
faces of her captive audience that she herself had so exquisitely induced. The
moment was so utterly perfect, even better, surely than her beloved creator
could have imagined. She was proud beyond words to be chosen as the
instrument of their destruction. How foolish these mortals looked, gawking at
her terrible beauty like doomed fish in a bowl.
The Banshee smiled, exposing a set of jagged rotten teeth, and cooed
out loud at the response this won from those wide eyed imbeciles inside. Her
smile grew impossibly wide now, across her whole face literally from ear to
ear, a gaping razor slash of a smile splitting her face in half.
Her life was short, her purpose clear.
Inside, Larry took a faltering step back as the witch outside opened its
maw, exposing a darkness in it even deeper and more terrible than the void it
had emerged from. He stepped back and his heel inadvertently slipped in the
very blood he had spat at Peroni only moments before. His leg shot from
underneath him sending him sprawling to the floor in a heap.
It saved his live.
The Banshee had only one purpose and that purpose was death.
The Banshee screamed.
A split second later the window and the Banshee itself exploded
simultaneously from the sheer force of the blast.
The Banshee to dust, the window, frame and all into the room like a
hurricane of deadly shattered glass and splintered wood.
Peroni was directly in the path of the murderous debris as it flew into the
room in the blink of an eye. She didn't even have time to scream before it
ripped mercilessly into her.
Nichols turned away in horror as it did. He was hit himself, caught on the
very edge of the icy blast that followed the witch’s scream which filled the
room like a shriek straight from hell itself, tiny fragments of glass and wood
287
stung his face but little else, the wounds they inflicted wouldn't even leave a
scar in a day or so, unlike Peroni.
With a scream of his own, Larry rolled around on the floor and began to
shout and swear, little flecks of blood appeared through his grimy shirt where
he had been grazed by shrapnel. But it was Peroni alone who had taken the
full brunt of the damage.
The priest had to force himself to look back at her and it made him sick
to his stomach with shock and guilt. Peroni had fallen to her knees now with
her head bowed as if in prayer, her hands clasped over her ruined face in a
vain attempt to stem the flow of blood that was flooding through her fingers.
Her choking, muffled screams barely audible to Nichols above the ringing in
his own ears from the explosion of sound the witch had unleashed.
Then as he watched on, unable to drag himself up to help her, she fell
forwards hitting her lacerated head hard on the floor, making her scream all
the more.
The pitiful sight finally shook Nichols into action, he got to his feet, but
before he could move to help her, Larry scrambled back to his feet, blood
streaming from his nose and stood unsteadily in between Nichols and the
prone woman.
“Gimme the box!” Larry screamed, blood spitting out of his mouth with
the words.
“God Man,” Nichols implored. “It's too late for that now. Let me help her
for pity's sake!” He came at McCulloch but with no real energy and tried
desperately to push him aside so he could get to Peroni, but Larry side
stepped him and then with surprising speed, pistol whipped Nichols hard
across the face sending him crashing to the floor with fireworks exploding in
front of his eyes as he went. Somehow he managed to keep a tight grip on
the box as he did so, like a rugby player going down from a heavy tackle but
refusing to give up possession of the ball.
McCulloch aimed down at Nichols, determined to put an end to his
pathetic life once and for all. He was about to squeeze the trigger when he
caught a flash of light out of the corner of his eye and for a brief moment half
expected it to be followed by a clap of thunder. But there was no storm
288
brewing outside, far from it. He chanced a look out of the hole in the wall
where the window had been.
The void out there which up until his point had been nothing more than
a pitiless black, now seemed to Larry to be lighter somehow, a dark grey. As
he looked on a crack of searing bright light snaked across the gloom, flashing
like folk lightening before being swallowed up by the darkness again. Larry
let out a howl of triumph as his eyes adjusted to what he was seeing. He
could see glimpse of the street outside, shadowy outlines of houses, trees
along the road disappearing off in the murk, but there nevertheless.
“It's failing,” he said breathlessly, hardly daring to trust his tired eyes, but
it was true, he could now make out things more clearly. The tree lined street
outside flashed briefly into view, clear as day for a split second before it faded
from sight. “Jesus, it's failing.” Larry took a breath then drew his attention
back to the priest, who was now, quite fittingly on his knees.
He waved the pistol at Nichols. This was the real power here, this was
the glory. Faith had never stopped a bullet, not in Larry McCulloch's world.
He shook it so the gun parts jangled together, but the priest was oblivious to
the threat, lost as he was in the carnage of the room before him. Lost in the
suffering of his fallen comrades, those fools who has followed him so blindly.
And where had it gotten them?
Larry almost pitied Nichols as he took in the horror around him. Almost.
The priest was weeping now, huge great sobs racked his body like a child.
Because he was the cause of all this. Not Larry, who, as usual had barely a
scratch beyond the superficial. Nichols was to blame and he knew it. It was
written all over his tear stained face.
“God forgive me,” Nichols sobbed, still clinging to his misplaced faith.
“Maybe he will,” Larry told him and aimed at his forehead. “You can ask
him yourself face to face soon enough.” It was a good line to end things on,
Larry mused.
But Nichols barely heard him, he was lost now to overwhelming despair.
In that wretched moment, he would have gladly welcomed a bullet, to end it
all. Anything was preferable to the soul crushing survivor guilt this suburban
slaughter house would bring. A quick, painless end to it all.
289
It took all his remaining will not to look up at his would-be executioner
and begged him to do it. But Nichols couldn't tear his tortured gaze from
Lewis and Peroni, twins as they were in misery and certain death. Twins he
had fathered with this whole sorry affair. Better a bullet than to endure
another moment of this.
Enough was enough. Larry squeezed the trigger and braced himself for
the weapon to kick, spew fire and death, not to mention the mess it would
make of the priest’s head.
The hammer came down with a dull click. “Fuck it!” Larry cursed, hell of
a time for a misfire. He pulled back the slide which ejected the dud round,
sending it spinning cinematically over his shoulder, and then brought the
slide back again chambering a fresh bullet into the breach.
A shaft of bright orange sunlight broke through the rapidly fading void
and warmed the side of Larry's face, raising a smile as it did so. It hit him like
a spot light on the lead actor standing centre stage having just delivered a
masterful soliloquy. The off stage cue for the grand finale. Boom. Close
curtain and fade up rapturous applause. Take the plaudits and then off to the
after show party.
The smile on his face gave way to an almost maniacal grin. After all the
shit he had been through in the last couple of weeks. And somehow it had all
turned into another fine chapter in the life of ‘Lucky’ Larry McCulloch. Full of
drama and tension but one where our hero came through in the end, blooded
but not bowed. Larry felt nothing short of blessed as he prepared to pull the
trigger again.

FORTY-TWO
“Jez, Larry,” an American said from behind him. “I wish you’d decide
who’s side you’re on.”
Each word felt like a bullet in Larry's back and knocked the wind right out
of him. Despite the brightening sun on his face a chill ran through him, he
gasped his mouth suddenly dry.
290
It was now that Nichols finally looked up at him, he looked almost
disappointed Larry hadn't been able to finish him off. Yes he looked many
things, but surprised wasn't one of them.
“What have you done?” Larry asked his voice tinged with accusation, but
heavier still with fear. He turned slowly and sure enough Randall was
standing in the doorway, leaning casually against the frame taking in the
room with a look of mild amusement on his face.
Throwing caution to the wind, Larry swiftly aimed at the yanks chest and
pulled the trigger. The hammer came down but again he was treated not to a
deafening roar but a mute click as the gun failed to fire once more.
Impossible. He quickly went through the motions again, pulling back the
slide, dud round spinning off until it rattled off across the floor, then slide it
back chambering a new round. Click.
“Fuck,” Larry took a step towards Randall and repeated the action. Click.
His head swam. Again, Click, Impossible, another step, click. Impossible, he
could almost hear the Gods laughing at him, laughter that was fading
moment be moment as they deserted him. Click, click, click. Finally he
stopped the pointless display and looked down at the weapon in his hands as
though it had purposely betrayed him.
“It's a neat trick, huh?” Randall said nodding to the useless pistol. A wry
smile crossed his features. “Wish I'd known it a few decades ago.”
“Oooh, I like it in here now,” Ishrel whispered peeping around Randall
and into the blood splattered room. Ishrel was feeling braver by the moment
Randall noted, but not so brave yet not to make sure Randall was between
him and the poem. “Quite the blood bath.”
The one called Lewis was staring blankly at the Italian woman, his breath
shallow, his half close eyes twin pools of grief. What was her name? Pretty, in
a stern way he recalled, but that was before she had felt the Banshee's breath,
and all that came with it, on her face. She was still screaming, her mess of a
face in her blood drenched hands curled up in a ball. Lewis' breath, such as it
was started to come out in short sharp bursts, shallower with each one. They
would both soon be dead.
That reminded him, he looked past the disbelieving McCulloch to the
priest who was dragging himself to his feet. He had all the appearance of a
291
beaten man, but Randall knew never to take a priest at face value, and
especially once with a Mynor's poem tucked under his arm.
His gaze met the collector’s. “Randall,” he implored. “Please.”
Randall gave him the slightest nod in recognition, then screwed his eyes
tight shut, weary as he was this would take some effort to pull off. He
reached into his pocket to activate the charm he had previously prepared
hidden there.
The room went black. Larry, still grasping the useless pistol in his hand
cursed under his breath and waited for the floor to open up and send him
plummeting straight to hell, if that's how things like this worked. But a mere
heartbeat later the room reappeared around him, only brighter, the void
outside now completely gone. He had to squint against the daylight flooding
in. He almost patted himself down to make sure he was still in one piece.
He was still intact. Lewis and Peroni however were gone.
Nichols stumbled forwards close to Larry. “No, wait. Randall what have
you done with them?” His voice was high with panic.
“Relax,” Randall said holding up his hands as if to show he had nothing
up his sleeves. “You'll see them soon enough.”
Was that a threat or a promise?
“A deal's a deal,” Randall added.
“What?” Larry almost choked on the word. He made a half-hearted grab
for Nichols’ arm but the priest pulled away, his gaze dropping to his feet.
“What deal?”
A deal’s a deal. Words to be damned by. Larry suddenly remembered
the text Nichols had sent as he grabbed the phone from him.
“What deal? He repeated weakly, jabbing an accusing finger at the
priest. “Nichols,” he said firmer. “What's he talking about?”
“Larry...” Nichols said faintly, he hung his head unable to stand the
accusation, the fear in McCulloch's eyes. Then after a full ten seconds of
contemplation he looked up with blood shot eyes. “Believe me or not,” he
continued hoarsely. “I... I really am sorry it's come to this.” He gestured down
to the gun still in Larry's hand. “Even after you did what you did. Which I
292
suppose I can't really blame you for.” He met Larry's eyes a little firmer now.
“You are what you are,” he stated then he looked away again deflated. “It's
such a mess, such a bloody mess.”
He clearly wanted to say more but could find the words.
“You set me up.” Larry said in naked disbelief.
“I had... No choice.” Nichols turned away and placed the box, which
seemed to have gained a thousand pounds in weight, on the table.
“But, but, Jesus Christ, you're a priest!” Larry stuttered. “You swore to
protect me. To the death, you said. You were all supposed to die to protect
me.”
“There's still time for that,” Nichols replied bitterly and turning he rested
his backside against the table to avoid falling over all together. “There's still
time,” he said again and glanced at the pool of blood where Peroni had been.
“No,” Larry told him. “No.”
“I'm sorry,” Nichols said and ran his hand over the bejewelled box on the
table by his side. He couldn't think of anything else to say.
Quite the Shakespearian scene of betrayal Randall thought watching the
two of them go at it. He was feeling more energised by the minute now the
void was gone and seeing Larry's dismay buoyed his spirits no end.
“Oh, shit.” Larry said as if the realization of his situation ad just hit him.
He spun to face Randall and let the pistol drop to the floor. “Oh, shit. Look
Randall, wait a sec'.”
“You're shit out of luck, Larry,” he told him and finally stepped into the
room. The presence of the box still weighed heavy on him, its power was no
less potent for his approaching possession of it. He forced himself to move
closer even though it made him sick to the stomach.
“Randall, please... Listen to me,” Larry pleaded, his voice cracked as he
spoke.
“Come on now, Larry. Calm down, you’ve had a good run...”
“No!” Larry snapped at him his pale face reddening. “This is bullshit! This
is bullshit! No, no!” He insisted as if it would make any difference. Then he
turned on Nichols. “You sold me out! Fucking Judas. Judas!!”
293
It was as good a description as any Nichols had to admit, and
impressively Biblical coming from McCulloch. He concentrated his attention
on the congealing blood on the carpet and couldn't imagine it were possible
to feel any worse about himself, or about this whole Godforsaken situation.
Larry was easy to hate, even easier to betray as it turned out after what he’d
done to Lewis, but still his heart felt like it was being ripped out of his chest.
The only meagre consultation was that Lewis and Peroni were out of this,
and that from what he knew of Randall, the collector would kill him also, he
just prayed, selfish as it was, that he did it before Larry, so he wouldn't have to
witness the fruits of his treachery
Ishrel poked his head around the door and wrinkled his stubby nose,
then caught sight of the box. “There!” He exclaimed pointing to it and then
skipped into the room with surprising grace. Must be the tutu Randall
thought as he watched the demon pirouette through the human
slaughterhouse. Very balletic.
Ishrel danced around McCulloch, who suddenly dropped to his knees as
if he could sense the creature and began sobbing into his hands. Ishrel
sniffed the air around him as he passed, taking in the sweet aroma of grief,
then with a hideous grin spun off to where Nichols was supporting himself
against the table. The freakish ballerina, although still clearly weary of the
box, put his skinned monkey face up close to the priest’s and tried in vain to
lick his nose.
“Ooph,” Randall shuddered. “Just be glad you can't see what I can right
now, Father.” But Nichols was lost somewhere close to madness and didn't
hear him.
“Kill the fucking Priest!” Ishrel screamed into Nichols' face. “Kill him and
all the others. What are you doing letting those other two stuck pigs go? No
survivors! No survivors.”
“My companion wants me to kill you, Father. Would that be bad form?”
This caused a flash of something close to amusement on Nichols’ face
and his mind came back from where ever it had been teetering. “I suppose
you could,” he said softly to the blood stained floor. “After all you do hold all
the cards now. Don't you?” His voice was full of fatigue but still held a hint of
defiance.
294
Ishrel studied the priest’s face as he spoke. “He's not afraid anymore this
one,” he noted with disappointment.
As if he had heard Ishrel, Nichols turned his head stiffly towards Randall
and said with a raised eyebrow, “It wouldn't come as much of a shock, would
it? You being a demon and all.”
“Do it!” Ishrel jumped a foot in the air clapping his bony hands wildly.
“You know it's good luck to kill a priest.”
“No,” Randall said with finality. He took a step to one side and gestured
to the open doorway. “Be on your way Father. A deal is a deal.”
“Huh?” Both Ishrel and Nichols said simultaneously. It was impossible
for Randall to tell which of the two was more surprised.
“I've no quarrel with you, Father” he continued. “Apart from the whole
good versus evil thing of course. But I think that can wait for another day,
don't you think?”
Nichols couldn't quite believe what he was hearing. His best and
possibly only hope had been that Peroni and Lewis escaped with at least the
chance of survival considering their horrible wounds, but at no point did he
think that Randall would spare him once he was allowed in the room. He
looked at the collector with disbelief and waited for his face to break into a
demonic grin, shout 'only kidding, you're doomed,' and unleash the hounds
of hell upon him.
But again Randall gestured towards the door. “Please,” he said politely.
“I'm a man of my word.”
Nichols stood up straight and smoothed down his crumpled shirt. His
dog collar suddenly felt tight around his neck and he loosened it with his
index finger, he then heard a snap and the collar split and fell to the floor at
his feet. It seemed somehow apt as if the church he had so steadfastly
believed in had forsaken him, cast him out for literally doing a deal with the
Devil.
What had happened here over the last few days would haunt him
forever, he knew that. Jeff, the betrayal of McCulloch and God alone only
knew what had become of Lewis and Ania, even if they were spirited away
295
somewhere safe as the collector had promised, they were so close to death
anyway, could they possibly survive?
Yes he knew all this would stay with him forever. But as for the church
itself? The Vatican had more than enough power to fight Randall and his
kind, they just didn't have the will or the belief in what was right in front of
their faces to use that power. The collar breaking was a sign, he must carry
on the fight, but without the handicap of Vatican rules. As he had said before,
he was done with them now. He touched the broken collar with the toe of his
shoe, and so it seemed the church was done with him also.
So be it. Nichols made a point of stepping on the collar as he walked
over to the doorway, he was tempted to give one last look to the box left on
the table, but the truth was it had done the job he had brought it here to do,
plus it was another symbol of the Vatican and all that brought with it, so he
just kept walking. Passing Randall he said, “We will meet again collector.”
“Oh, I'm counting the days,” Randall replied. “Now get gone before I
change my mind.”
Ishrel was at Randall's side in an instant. “What are you doing?” But shut
up when Randall snapped his fingers and his old tacky Halloween mask
clamped itself to his face again. His shoulders sagged in resignation, but did
manage to add. “God I hate you, collector.”
“Father, please,” Larry made a final desperate lunge towards Nichols and
tried to grab a hold of the priest’s trouser leg, but ended up pitching forwards
and landing flat on his face. “Please,” he pleaded. “You can't leave me here
with this thing.”
His voice cut into Nichols like a knife, but he held firm. “You've chosen
your own path, Larry,” he said without turning around, this scene would haunt
him long enough as it was. Instead he focused on the swirling darkness still
lingering half way down the stairs. He couldn't make out the merest hint of
the foot of the stairs or the hall beyond.
Was this Randall's final joke? Was he damned after all? He took a
tentative step out onto the landing, then another to the top of the stairs. It
was still cold out here, so cold he could see his breath again.
“Nichols, Please!” Larry screamed pitifully from the room behind him.
296
“You've sown, Larry,” he said to the darkness and took another step
down. “Now reap it.” And with that he gritted his teeth and walked down the
steps and into the darkness itself.
“No,” Larry struggled to get to his knees as the priest disappeared from
sight. “No, you can't. Come back, you're a priest... A man of God,” his voice
broke as he reached the doorway. “You can't... you can't do this!”
But he was gone.
“Gee,” said Randall from behind him. “I guess he can.”
McCulloch was gasping for air now, the shock of it all robbing him of his
breath, he half crawled, half shuffled back over to where Randall was standing
in the middle of the room and began to claw desperately at Randall's trouser
leg. “Please,” he wheezed. “Randall, please I don't want to die, not like this...
Please!” He began to sob with growing hysteria. “We can still cut a deal,
there must be something you want. Oh God...”
Randall looked down grimly at the pathetic display. The once great Larry
McCulloch sobbing like a child, snot and tears streaming down his face,
begging for his worthless life. Randall actually wished he could have seen the
man in his prime, not like this. It seemed to be his lot in life to interact with
humans only when they were at their worst. Tommy Whitaker, the once proud
Father Nichols and his team, and now Larry McCulloch. He almost felt sorry
for him. Almost.
“Larry, come on,” Randall said softly and pulled his trouser leg out of
McCulloch's grubby hold. “Show a little back bone, huh?” But Larry was deaf
to this and Randall had to dodge out of the way as he made another
desperate lunge of his leg.
Meanwhile, Ishrel was tiptoeing slowly towards the box on the table, as if
stalking a rabbit in the wild, his spindly fingers trembling as he reached out to
touch it. A foot away his nerve gave out and he snatched is hands away as if
they had been burnt. “Randall, the box,” he hissed. “Open the box, let's see
it.”
Distracted by the demon Randall was almost pitched over when
McCulloch wrapped his arms around his legs. “Please, Please, I won't go out
like this,” Larry pleaded. He squeezed tight, holding on for dear life.
“Randall,” he wailed. “What can I do? Please tell me what can I do?”
297
“Nothing.”
McCulloch was suddenly grabbed by a dozen icy claws and was
wrenched away from Randall. He curled up in a ball screaming in terror as the
invisible horrors swarmed all over him knocking him to the floor, their legion
of bodies pinning him down. Their touch froze the blood in his veins as they
set about pulling and tugging at his clothes and hair, ripping into his skin
here and there, they were everywhere, squirming all over is prone body,
scratching and biting like a pack of wild animals.
He opened his mouth to cry out but a barbed hand snatched at his
exposed tongue, ripping off the tip of it in an instant. Blood pumped from
the wound right on the heels of searing pain and threatened to drown him in
his own blood as his mouth filled with the stuff. He spat out mouthful after
mouthful but swallowed half as much again which make him retch.
McCulloch gasped for breath as best he could, his head swimming.
After spitting out another mouthful, Larry just about managed more
vaguely coherent pleading.
“Larry,” Randall said testily, the endless begging was getting on his
nerves.
“Oh God, please... Please!” McCulloch gargled.
“Larry!”
“Jesus, Jesus, oh God please help me.”
“Hey!” Randall snapped and the old crook finally fell silent as the unseen
onslaught began to overwhelm him. “Larry, hush.” Randall continued softer
this time he could see the end was nigh for Larry now, as he squirmed on the
floor, naked with hundreds upon hundreds of cuts and gouges over his entire
body. “Just let it happen.” This said he left McCulloch to his fate and moved
over to the bonus prize on the table.
P...Please,” it was barely a whisper now.
“Save your breath,” Randall told him. “You'll need it for screaming.”


FORTY-THREE
298
A shudder strong enough to register on the Richter scale ran through
Nichols' body as he took another blind step through the darkness and further
down the stairs. Down, to God, or more aptly the Devil only knew. It felt like
an electric shock down his spine, which was suddenly amped up to a
thousand volts when he heard a distant scream from behind him.
Unmistakeably McCulloch's it rang out for a moment before being cut
abruptly short.
The darkness he was enveloped in was endless and absolute. A physical
malevolent presence which seemed to seep into the very pours of his skin,
filling him up with an emptiness to match the nothing around him. He felt as
dark on the inside as the world was outside.
It was almost too much for him to bear, he could feel it clouding his
judgement as it engulfed his brain, flooding it with thoughts too horrible to
dwell on for too long or he knew he would be lost to the desolation that
came with them forever. All through those terrible days and nights trapped in
that God forsaken room, never even at his lowest moment had Nichols felt
such a sense of despair and utter desolation as he did now.
Nichols took another blind step down and tried to clear his mind enough
to calculate how many steps he had taken so far. Was it four? Five?
Impossible to tell. It half occurred to him that perhaps he was trapped in an
endless decent into hopelessness. That he would remain in here forever.
Voices now, all around him, some shrieking, others raised in panic. Cries
of the damned?
Another step, no end or anything else in sight, just the voices, louder
now, close by, seemingly so close that Nichols reached out his arms in front of
him like a blind man but touched nothing but more blackness. He moved his
arms to the side where they should have touched the walls either side of the
stairs but again there was nothing there. Nichols bit back a cry of fear and
instead concentrated as best he could on the incoherent chatter all around
him in hope of making out some recognisable phrase, a word or two even.
After an age, he managed to tune out the throng to make out a woman's
voice, high pitched almost screeching in panic. Then others, lower seemingly
299
trying to calm her, trying, and failing. Their tone was soft, too soft to cut
through her harsh screaming.
Then a word; “Daddy!” It felt like a punch in the stomach to Nichols, it
was so heart wrenching, some poor forlorn soul crying out in the darkness for
her father. Nichols took another step, close now although he was numb to
most outward feeling in here he could feel the tears pouring down his frozen
cheeks. “Daddy!”
The other voices offering words of cold comfort rose up. “Ssh, lay still,”
they were saying. “It will be alright,” they lied.
“Daddy!” It was so close now and clearer than before. Nichols suddenly
froze in his tracks and cursed his stupidity. The word wasn't 'Daddy' he was
hearing, it was ‘padre’ and not in the sarcastic way Larry used the word.
Padre, the Italian word for Father.
“Calm down miss,” someone said.
“Jesus, “another voice now, harsher, tinged with shock. “Gotta stop the
bleeding! Get her inside for Christ sake.”
“Padre!”
“Ania?” Nichols breathed in disbelief.
“Where's that gurney?” The first voice demanded.
“On its way.” A Woman said her voice calm, professional.
“Jesus, fuck that's a lotta blood.” A third exclaimed. “What about that
other one, the guy? Someone said he's been shot or something?”
Lewis
“Looks like it,” the calm Woman replied. Think he's D.O.A anyway.
They've already taken him inside for what good it'll do. He’s going straight in
to surgery. Anyway, concentrate on the woman.”
They were so close, Nichols flailed his arms around like a madman. Why
couldn't he touch them? “Please,” he cried in the dark. “Please help them!”
But got no response.
“Shit,” One of them said.
300
“Yeah,” the woman agreed and Nichols could hear struggling. “Please,
miss, don't move.”
“Marlon! Where's that fucking gurney?” The first voice shouted, then
softer. “She's cut to ribbons, gotta stop that bleeding Sadie or she's had it.”
“Padre...” Much weaker now.
“Jesus, God. Ania.” As the words came out Nichols raised his foot to
take another step but as he brought it down it just kept on falling until he
pitched forwards, and just when he thought he would go tumbling into the
dark forever, Nichols landed hard on his hands and knees.
Pain shot through his joints and the palms of his hands stung from the
impact. He had fallen onto solid concrete. He ran his hands over the sharp
stones, concrete, no tarmac he had fallen onto a road.
Then the world exploded into sense shattering life all around him. It felt
like a reality thunder flash had just gone off right in front of his face, instantly
obliterating the darkness.
He sucked in a lungful of cool clean air, the first in days and the shock of
it made his head spin, it felt like he had just done a double tequila slammer,
straight down no salt or lemon. Bright flashes of multi-coloured fireworks
blossomed before his eyes as his brain threatened to over load altogether.
Nichols looked up from the tarmac and took in his new surroundings.
The first thing he made out from his prone position was the large white and
red sign above him which read: Accident and Emergency. To his right as if to
back this up he saw a row of three parked Ambulances, the closest one to him
had its back doors open, inside sat a bewildered looking elderly woman in a
pink dressing gown gawking at the commotion going on by the A&E's
entrance.
It took Nichols a full ten seconds for his addled brain to process the
sudden influx of new information. He was on his hands and knees in front of
a hospital’s Accident and Emergency department. He followed the old
woman's shocked gaze over to see Peroni laid on the ground directly in front
of the double automatic glass doors, which were opening and closing
intermittently as if deciding whether or not it was prudent to let anyone else
in at this time. But in fact the doors were activated by the flurry of activity
around Peroni.
301
She was screaming and thrashing in pain like a mad woman against two
blue uniformed paramedics and a nurse in white who was desperately trying
to press a wad of white gauze to her face in an attempt to stem the flow of
blood still pouring from the numerous lacerations on her face.
“Oh, Ania...” Nichols dragged himself to his feet just as two more nurses
came hurtling through the automatic doors wheeling a hospital gurney
between them. “Help her,” Nichols said breathlessly, “Please...” Fighting
growing nausea and a creeping unconsciousness that was gnawing at the
back of his aching head, Nichols got two unsteady paces closer when his eye
caught a body to the left of the doors. Half covered by a pink hospital
blanket, just laid there.
“Lewis,” Nichols clasped his hand over his mouth in horror, barely
managing to suppress a howl of despair. Then, NO! He wasn’t thinking
straight, whilst he was flailing through the darkness he had distinctly heard
someone say Lewis was already inside, taken straight into surgery. Although
the woman had added; think he's D.O.A anyway.
Despair fought with hope for control of Nichols’ heart. No he told
himself again, get a grip. Don’t give up on Lewis just yet, he was strong,
badly hurt but oh so strong. That wasn’t Lewis under the blanket. That was...
Nichols suddenly stopped like he'd just hit a glass wall. “Jeff...” The
blanket barely reached to the young man’s knees so that his lower legs and
feet were sticking pathetically out of the bottom. Somewhere in his final
moments Jeff had lost his left shoe which revealed a hole in the sole of his
exposed sock. One final indignity in his all too short a life. Nichols cried out
in anguish and turned away, before he broke down altogether. He staggered
over to the entrance where the nurses had just lifted Ania onto the gurney.
“Ania!” He shouted.
“Father?” She sobbed blindly, and tried to sit up before being pushed
back down again by one of the nurses.
“Hey, hey, lay still,” the nurse said.
“Father! Is that you, please...”
“Oh Ania,” Nichols bumped into the gurney and took her hand which was
slippery with blood. He winced, her face was a mess of torn flesh, blood and
302
bits of white gauze stuck to her wounds. There were so many he stopped
counting them at double figures which was about the time his heart broke.
“Oh, Father. Is that really you?”
“Yes, I'm here Ania, I'm safe.”
“It's a miracle,” she sobbed. And squeezed his hand with remarkable
strength.
“Please, we have to get her inside,” the calm female nurse insisted.
“Of, of course,” Nichols said.
“Father! Please don't leave me!” Peroni pleaded.
“I'm not going anywhere,” he said.
They moved as a group into the A&E reception where they were met by a
young pale faced looking doctor. “Straight into room two please.” He
pushed in past one of the nurses and gave Peroni's face a quick once over.
Nichols was surprised and heartened to see the young man didn't even flinch.
He nodded then collared the calm nurse. “Sadie, put a call out for doctor
Parsons. The other guy has gone straight into surgery.”
“Yes doctor,” and with that she was off into action.
“He's alive?” Nichols asked the doctor in astonishment.
“So far,” the doctor replied bringing his attention back to Peroni. Then as
if he'd just seen him, he looked up at Nichols “Who are you?”
He was about to answer, when one of the nurses said, “Her father.” Of
course, his dog collar was gone.
Nichols felt a lump in his throat. He would have been proud to be.
Someone behind Nichols shouted, “And will someone get that body
outside onto a gurney and out of sight, please! What is this, a fucking war
zone?”
Not far off, Nichols thought.
“Ok, move!” The young doctor ordered and Peroni's hand was suddenly
wrenched from Nichols' as she was pushed away.
303
“Father!” She screamed flailing her arms around blindly trying to find
him.
“I'm here...” Nichols made to follow but a large paramedic appeared out
of nowhere and stood in his path. Peroni was gone through a doorway and
out of sight before he could protest.
“Sorry, sir, you can't go any further, not just yet. Let them see to your
daughter, someone will be out very soon to give you an update.” Nichols
looked up at the man dumbly. “Please, she’s in good hands.” The paramedic
indicated to a shocked looking security guard who was watching Jeff's body
being wheeled in and off down another corridor. “Hey, Trent!” He waved him
over to them.
“Everything okay?” The security guard asked.
“Yeah, this is that woman's father, keep an eye on him, until I can send
someone over. And don't let him back there whatever you do,” He hooked
his thumb over his shoulder to the treatment area.
“Okay,” He nodded and took Nichols gently but firmly by the arm. “Sir...”
“I'm not going anywhere,” Nichols tried to pull away, his eyes fixed on
the door Peroni had disappeared though, a nurse in blood splattered scrubs
exited and rushed off giving him a fleeting glimpse of the flurry of activity
going on inside then the door snapped shut again.
Then it hit him, the shock of it all. He began to shake and the tears came
again. The shock just snuck up from behind him and overwhelmed him in a
heartbeat. His legs gave way, but thankfully the security guard caught a hold
of him and half carried half ushered him over to a nearby seat.
“It's okay, I've got you,” he gently sat Nichols down and pulled over a
seat for himself and sat down next to him.
Nichols stared down at his trembling blood soaked hands, then around
to take in the reality of his surroundings. He was out, alive as were Peroni and
Lewis (for now at least). Then the second wave of shock slapped him hard in
the face. “Thank you, thank you,” he sobbed and wrapped his arms around
himself. “Oh, thank you.”
304
The security guard put a hand on his shaking shoulder, but it wasn't the
security guard he was thanking, not even the medical staff. It was his sworn
enemy. Randall.
What a paradox the collector was, he had kept his part of their secret
bargain, more so in fact. He had promised to get them all out of there, which
he had done. Nichols had written the text but not sent it before Larry had
pulled his lunatic stunt with the gun, it was written more in catharsis than
anything, at their desperate situation, a guilty little pleasure but one he had
never intended to action and actually send.
Until of course McCulloch had showed his true selfish colours (in truth he
had never tried to hide what he was or what he would do given half the
chance so it came as no surprise, when he turned the gun on them all.) So
Nichols had sent it without really contemplating how the words could be
interpreted, especially by an agent of the Devil.
He had no way of knowing how Randall would choose to interpret the
text. He would have been well with in the spirit of the deal if he had just
dumped them all in the middle of the street outside the house, or miles from
anywhere, where Ania and Lewis would have surely bled to death. Or Randall
could have simply gone back on his word altogether once he had Larry and
the box, but he hadn't.
This soldier of darkness, Nichols sworn enemy had effectively saved
Ania's, and God willing, Lewis’ lives, and spared Nichols. Wasn't he supposed
to be the 'bad man'?
Tears came again, this time in floods and Nichols didn't even try to
repress the sobs that followed. The security guard next to him tried his best
to comport what he thought was the grieving father, but Nichols was barely
aware he or anything around him was even there. The world around him had
turned to mush as the tears drowned out his vision.
Tears of relief, for sure, tears no one would begrudge him after so many
days on the edge of life and death. But equally these were tears of shame.
He had betrayed McCulloch and worse still in the end he was happy to
do so.
The guilt would pass in time, Larry was an easy man to betray with a
clean conscience. But wasn't Nichols the 'good guy’ in all this? The one on
305
the side of righteousness? Yet it had been Randall, the demon who had
delivered on his oath to Nichols, above and beyond what had been expected
of him. And Nichols? He was the cheat, for the right reasons perhaps, but he
was the cheat in all this nevertheless. The one time priest, the 'righteous
man'.
Randall was a man of honour, for all his foul deeds, he knew how to
conduct himself. He had a job to do, get Larry McCulloch which he had done
and so had no need for petty actions like killing a priest. Besides he had a
bonus prize. The Box.
Ah, yes the box. Made to hold Mynor's poem. Priceless, ancient. Stolen.
The box. Nichols had promised Randall the box and McCulloch in
exchange for his life and the life of his friends.
The box.
The collector had Larry McCulloch and the box made to hold Mynor's
poem, as agreed but also one final hidden extra Randall hadn't bargained for.
Nichols' gift to him. A lesson and one Nichols knew he would have to pay for
if their paths ever crossed again.
One thing you should always remember, collector.
Never play poker with a priest.
FORTY-FOUR
“It's empty!!” Ishrel shrieked as he stared down into the open box with
his mouth gaping open in shock.
He mouthed something Randall didn't catch through the mask and
shook his head. He put his hands on his hips, and action that nearly made
Randall laugh out loud. What with the mask and the tutu he looked just so
damn camp. Like a reptilian ballet dancer who had just discovered there were
no more cookies left in the jar. Still he was right, no getting away from the
fact. The box was empty.
306
“That, that priest, the fucker!” Ishrel shouted to the ceiling them began
pacing. “He lied to us. That cocksucker lied to us!”
“It's getting so you can't trust anyone these days.” Randall picked his way
through the bloody remains of Larry McCulloch that were strewn all over the
room. The soul extraction had been a particularly messy and painful affair, as
requested by his bosses. That and perhaps due to the fact the man's soul was
probably so shrivelled and black that the demons who had torn him apart
with such glee had trouble locating it.
He peered into the offending empty box again. Damn cleaver trick, he
had to admit the priest had pulled off a masterful burn with this one. He
would make a good collector.
“But, but,” Ishrel stammered with such frustration that Randall considered
making steam come out of his pointy ears. But decided not to add insult to
injury. “He didn't take it with him,” Ishrel said, his tiny brain working overtime.
“We would have sensed it.”
This would have been true, if there had been a poem in this room to start
with. “Don't you get it?” He said. “It was all a bluff. Christ, that priest must
have balls the size of a bull’s.” He nudged the box, but had to pull his hand
away. It was empty but still omitting a nauseating amount of power despite
its lack of contents.
“But he spoke some of the words....” Ishrel’s voice trailed off. “Didn't he?”
“I seem to remember you were just a blur heading for the door when he
opened it.” But no, now he thought back the priest hadn't uttered so much as
a word from the text. Randall shuddered. “This box is real enough, must have
held a poem for hundreds of years to absorb that amount of power from it.”
“I dread to think what it would have felt like if there had have been a
poem in there,” Ishrel said.
“Exactly,” Randall agreed and wrapped the box in the same towel Nichols
had used. This was a watershed moment and Randall knew it. He could only
imagine what power the poem possessed, just a few faded lines on an
ordinary piece of paper, so legend had it. Simple ancient words written in
Mynor's own blood. Left dormant for two centuries locked away in some
Vatican archive. Its power seeping through to the very wood of the box until
307
his kind couldn't even tell an empty one from the real thing. That was real
power right there.
If the Vatican ever realized the potential of the weapon they had right
under their noses. That would be a day of reckoning alright. But if they had,
they would have surely allowed the priest to bring the real thing, even if only
to test its power in the field. The fact that they hadn't gave Randall hope, he
doubted they believed in any of this. All the same, it would be prudent for
Randall and his kind to continue to conduct their war in secret.
The priest for one couldn't have known what would happen when he
opened he box while Randall was in the room. That the box had so much
residue power, power Nichols himself was oblivious to. So it was nothing
more than a slight of hand trick he had up his sleeve if Randall got to them
before they escaped with Larry to the Vatican.
One last throw of the dice when all else was lost. No wonder the priest
had looked so scared. Randall had assumed he was fearful of what effect the
poem’s power once unleashed would have on mere mortals within its range,
let alone the bricks and mortar around them. But in truth Nichols couldn’t
have known if Randall would feel anything at all, that is was just, as in fact it
was, an empty box.
It was a master bluff, and one Randall himself would have been proud of.
The priest had pulled it off beautifully despite that fear. Randall was
impressed and hoped they would indeed meet again as the priest had
prophesised.
Randall was impressed with the priest. Ishrel was not. “I told you we
should have slaughtered them all,” the demon spat. “I demand you get him
back here, now! For a right royal fucking.”
“He's long gone. Besides, a little cheating aside, a deal's a deal. Don't be
such a sore loser.”
“Feh!” Came the reply.
The truth was they had what they came for. Larry McCulloch had pulled
his last double cross and had paid dearly for it. It was mission accomplished
as far as Randall was concerned. He and the priest, he noticed the broken
dog collar on the floor, or whatever he was now would meet again and when
308
they did he would gladly shake the man’s hand before ripping his cheating
heart out.
The collector took in the room and nodded at a job well done. Then they
were away from here the full extent of the damage caused to the house, not
to mention its contents, would be revealed, so he decided a good old
fashioned gas explosion would cover that up nicely.
It would appear to a forensic team like a deliberate act to cover up the
remains of McCulloch they would also find here but that was fine. No doubt
the old crook’s death would be put down to one of his numerous enemies.
One thing was for sure though, no one would morn Larry McCulloch.
He turned to the table and the box, the thing was useless now and being
in its proximity was making his skin crawl, he tipped the table so the box slid
from under the towel and onto the floor, it was priceless, sure but Randall had
no need for money so took great pleasure in kicking the box hard against the
wall where it splintered in a dozen pieces.
“That’s all she wrote,” he said and was about to head for the door and a
well-earned rest when he caught sight of Ishrel. The demon's crooked back
straightened and he turned his face up as if sniffing the air.
“Wait, wait,” Ishrel said concentrating.
Randall let out a sigh, this could only mean one thing. Ishrel was getting
a message through the ether.
“Ishrel...”
“Ssh!” Ishrel held up a hand to silence him as he listened. “Hmm,” he
said nodding. “Another assignment, collector.”
“So soon?”
“Yes, and a big one by the sounds of it.”
“Oh, well,” Randall said with resignation. “No rest for the wicked.” Then
he got the joke. “Ha! Get it? “
Ishrel hung his head and gave a sigh of disgust.
“Get it? That's us, no rest for the wicked.”
309
“Really?” Ishrel gave him a look of pity through the mask. “Is that the
best you can come up with?”
“No rest for the wicked,” Randall laughed out loud again and looked at
the demon. “I can tell you're laughing on the inside, Ishrel.”
“Come on,” Ishrel swung a hand towards the door and the pair of them
strolled from the room together. “And Randall?” He added. “Let us try and
play this next assignment by the book, please. Just this once, for me?”
Randall would have slapped him on the back if he could. “Never going
to happen little buddy. Never going to happen.”

EPILOGUE
It felt like a dream. So much so that as he lent against the stone pillar
close to the entrance to the famous St. Mark’s square here in Venice, Peter
Nichols lightly banged his head against the masonry in lieu of pinching
himself. His heart swelled and tears came to his eyes, not an unfamiliar state
for them by any means, but for the first time in so long, these were tears of
joy.
The woman sitting at a table outside one of the many cafés that lined the
famous Venetian tourist attraction, took a sip from her espresso and closed
her eyes as she listened to a small orchestra which was set up on a stage in
front of the café. It was playing an old Italian love song, Nichols vaguely
knew from somewhere, a film perhaps. Although the woman was in the
afternoon shade she positively glowed to Nichols.
He moved around the outskirts of the square, dodging a gaggle of
school children window shopping nearby. Two of the boys couldn't resist
racing out into the square to chase off the million or so pigeons that had
taken up permanent residence there. The birds exploded into flight much to
the boys delight but the joy on their faces turned to grimaces as one of their
teachers, a stern looking middle aged woman shouted at them in French to
get back in line or she would feed them to the pigeons as punishment.
310
Now that he could see the woman’s face more clearly he gave a prayer of
thanks, even from where he was standing, he could make out a thin network
of scars snaking across the skin but they looked superficial enough and
considering the state she was in the last time he saw her, she looked perfect
to him. He walked across the crowded square and over to her table. She was
still leaning back in her chair, eyes closed taking in the music, with a thin but
contented smile on her face.
Nichols paused by the table to compose himself and had to fight the
urge just to grab a hold of her and hug the life right out of her. Instead is just
said her name. “Ania?”
The smile grew hearing her name but she didn't open her eyes straight
away, a fact that Nichols was grateful for as the scars deepen as she did so,
which made Nichols wince briefly, then thankfully they faded once more and
she finally looked up at him. “You're late,” she said gently and got to her feet.
They embraced warmly and Peroni kissed his cheek. “It's good to see you
Father...” She stopped mid-sentence and wrinkled her nose looking at his
plain shirt collar.
“It's just plain Peter now, Ania,” he said with a shrug.
“That's going to take some getting used to,” she gestured to the seat
next to her and they both sat.
“God, you look great Ania,” tears threatened once more and he had to
compose himself before continuing.
She took a hold of both his hands. “I'm fine,” she said. “Almost good as
new.”
“It's a miracle,” he said and it was. The scars would always be there he
knew, but would fade by the year. She had escaped not only with her life, but
thanks to the quick thinking doctor on duty that day, her sight too. Now he
was close he could see both her eyes had a faint discolouration from the
damage they had sustained but she could see well enough. A miracle indeed.
“I heard they gave you a pretty rough time afterwards,” Ania said.
“You know that Vatican, they love a good inquisition.”
Her face grew grave. “They wouldn't let us testify, said we were too
weak.” She frowned bitterly.
311
“Hey, come on,” Nichols lifted her chin. “None of this was your fault. I
took the blame because it was mine to take.”
“Rubbish,”
“It's true, and don't worry about me, I'm fine.”
“Was it pretty rough?”
He shrugged again and gave a dismissive wave of the hand. “We've
survived demons you and I Ania. What could possibly be rough after that?”
It had been over six months now since Nichols had left the Vatican, he
had been allowed to leave, bizarrely with a hefty pay out and he was still on
the official Vatican records as a 'consultant.' In exchange, or so Nichols
believed for his silence.
Those at the highest levels at the Vatican, those close to the Pope, but
not the man himself who was always shielded from such matters as these.
Knew the knowledge he had was dangerous to the much prized and
ferociously guarded equilibrium of the establishment.
And they didn't want him walking the corridors shouting his mouth off
and disrupting it. Not that he would, but Nichols gladly took the money and
the limited access he still had as a consultant to the archives which aided his
continued search for Randall and his kind. And of course, for her. Sofia.
But first those who had long mistrusted Nichols and his colleagues in the
archives had to have their day, if not in court, in inquest. And oh how they
loved it, reducing his reputation to tatters. The whole inquest into the fateful
events that took place in that nondescript house in the north of England
lasted little over a week, but it seemed like months to Nichols and on more
than one occasion he thought he would drown in all of their bullshit.
Peter Nichols knew the score and took it all. He was blamed out of hand
for the death of Jeffrey Sullivan and the near fatal woundings of Peroni and
Lewis, not to mention of course what had happened to Larry McCulloch. He
took the accusations and the thinly veiled threats and even a bogus
psychiatric report which labelled him borderline paranoid.
Throughout all this there was unsurprisingly no mention of his repeated
requests to be allowed to take one of Mynor's poems with him to England
(apparently Nichols found out later that the requested, written in triplicate,
312
was still gathering dust in Cardinal Binoffis’ in tray). Or that he had been
repeatedly refused permission to take Larry to the Vatican where he could be
better protected.
After the inquest was over, the three Cardinal panel had concluded that
Peter Nichols (formally Father Nichols) was nothing more than a paranoid
malcontent with his head full of soul collectors and demon creations (none of
which they smugly noted had ever been proved). The mysterious Randall
character was simply a mob Hitman, who had easily overwhelmed Peroni,
Lewis and Sullivan and it was a miracle that two of them had survived. (The
only point Nichols agreed with.) An assault, they pointed out, that Nichols
alone had emerged from unscathed.
The whole investigation had been a travesty, which came as no surprise,
a whitewash of ass covering and scapegoating. Nichols was an easy patsy,
and despite his growing hated of the establishment he had spent over half his
life serving, deep down he could not shake the feeling that for all their
bullshit, on the count that he was ultimately responsible for Jeff's death and
Larry's betrayal, they were right, and it was eating him up inside.
But he chose to use that guilt, which could have consumed him, to spur
him on all the more. It was the fuel to the fire in his belly, he would find
Randall, somehow get his hands on one of the real poems and end the
collector’s reign once and for all. Then move on to the others however many
there were.
That was what had brought him here to Venice, although they were
strictly forbidden to speak, Ania had managed to contact Nichols through a
mutual friend in the archives. She had information he had to see. Both Ania
and Lewis now worked directly for the Vatican under the ambiguous title of
research and protection. They were now on the front line of this clandestine
war, this wasn't news that Nichols had welcomed but next to himself they
were the only ones truly experienced enough to know what they faced, and
both were far less vocal than Nichols had been, they knew how to play the
Vatican politics game so were left pretty much alone to do as they wished.
They were indispensable allies, as Ania now proved. She took out a
brown file from her bag and placed it on the table between them. “Things
have been quiet on the collector front since our little fracas with Randall. You
know, I saw the CCTV footage taken outside the hospital he took us to?”
313
“Really?” Nichols sat up straight. “Anything useful? You know we never
really have had him on video before, the odd photo, but nothing proved.”
“It didn't make enjoyable watching I can tell you,” she said. “What with
Jeff and all.” She opened the file before continuing. “But no, nothing of our
Mr. Randall. The picture just cuts out when each one of us appears, there's
nothing, just a security shot of the front of the hospital, then static and when
it cuts back Lewis, Jeff and I are there, cuts to static again when you appear.
The footage was leaked to the internet, but most people thought it was a
hoax.”
“Yeah, I'm used to that reaction.” Nichols said ruefully.
She nodded. “However,” she pushed the open file over to Nichols who
saw two photographs. “When we were researching reaction to the tape,
blogs, conspiracy chat rooms and the like. We came across one user’s search
pattern, which we linked to many of the cases we ourselves were researching
online, sightings, unexplained incidence that sought of thing.”
Nichols just looked at her blankly. She laughed.
“Modern technology, Father,” she didn't even realize she'd used the word
and Nichols wasn't going to correct her. “Search patterns, it's strictly illegal,
but we can tap in on what certain users are looking at online.” She saw his
eyes were glazing over now. “We can see who's been looking at what sites,
obscure ones, like those we look at, not the much travelled ones. Anything
with word on the collectors, whether they know what a collector is or not,
which ninety-nine times out of a hundred they don't. Most blame Aliens.”
“Those guys again,” Nichols rolled his eyes and took out the two photos.
“And these?”
“We know the collectors and their kind often use criminal activity as a
cover or support.” Nichols nodded looking at the photos, candid shots of two
men, one in his early twenties, the other mid-forties, maybe younger. “The
older one...” She scanned a page of information in the folder. “William
Fraker. He has been repeatedly logging into these conspiracy sites, some very
obscure ones we thought only ourselves knew about. We think he's been
researching Randall.”
314
“And the other one?” Nichols asked.
“Charles Walker, Junior. His partner. They both work for a... Harry Lyne,
middle sized gangster in Leeds, England.”
“Leeds?” Nichols perked up. “That's close to the safe house we used.
And besides, why would two criminal types be interested in Randall?”
Peroni puffed out her chest in pride. “We did some digging on these
two. Strictly small time, mostly protection racket work. Until Larry McCulloch
decided to turn Queen's evidence. When that happened was half the criminal
underworld went looking for him, he had a six figure bounty on his head. The
police assumed this was to stop him testifying. But we know that was only
part of it.”
“These two were looking for Larry?” Nichols asked.
“These two were apparently babysitting a Hitman, who was looking for
Larry.” She made inverted comma quotations 'Hitman'.
“An American Hitman?”
She nodded. “They're the ones who found Tommy Whitaker, and after
that...”
“Us.” Nichols put the two photographs back in the folder, he suddenly
felt cold.
“We have tracked the pair down. They still work for Lyne, but after Larry
was killed, they were moved away to Spain, to one of Lyne’s few legitimate
ventures, a bar in Barcelona. Lewis is there already, keeping an eye on them.”
Nichols could only imagine a job in sunny Barcelona was only part of the
pairs reward for leading Randall to Tommy Whitaker, then on to the safe
house. Still, the thought of Lewis enjoying the Barcelona night life made him
smile.
“Lewis is still on light duty, so I told him not to do anything...” Peroni
paused, opened her purse and took out two plane tickets, one of which she
tossed on the table in front of Nichols. “Until we get there.” She told him
with a smile.
They call it a game, the collectors. And for so long it had been a game
they have happily played with the odds stacked well and truly in their favour.
315
But what would they call it when one by one they started to fall, sent kicking
and screaming back to the hell from where they came? And they would fall,
Nichols vowed as he and Peroni walked through the pigeons, across St.
Mark’s square and to a meeting they both hoped would tip the scales forever
in their favour for once.
As they walked, Nichols glanced down at Peroni’s large shoulder bag and
couldn't help himself. He gently dug his elbow into her ribs.
“You don't happen to have a Mynor's poem in there as well do you?” He
would have laughed but for the look of mischief on the Italian’s face. Then
she winked.
Game on.
E N D
If you enjoyed reading this book please leave a star rating and send some
feedback via the author’s obooko.com download page.
Although you do not have to pay for this book, the author’s intellectual property rights remain fully
protected by international Copyright laws. You are licensed to use this digital copy strictly for your personal
enjoyment only. This edition must not be hosted or redistributed on other websites without the author’s
written permission nor offered for sale in any form. If you paid for this book, or to gain access to it, we
suggest you demand an immediate refund and report the transaction to the author.